1 Let all those who are under the yoke of servitude regard their masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the doctrine may not be blasphemed. 
2 And let those whose masters are also believers not despise those masters under the pretext that they are brothers in faith. On the contrary, let them serve those masters even better because those who are believers are eager to do good. Teach these things and exhort them. 
3 If anyone teaches false doctrines rather than to cling to the healthy words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that is according to godliness.
4 Then he is conceited, and knows nothing. He has the illness of controversies and arguments about words, which produce envy, and quarrels, and slander, and evil suspicions.
5 These are the vain discussions of people whose minds are corrupt. They are deprived of the truth, and believe that piety is a source of material gain. Distance yourself from such people. 
6 But piety with contentment is great [spiritual] gain. 
7 For we have brought nothing into the world, and we will take nothing away from it. 
8 If therefore we have food and clothing, then that will be enough for us. 
9 But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and traps, into many foolish and pernicious desires that lead men into ruin and perdition. 
10 For the love of money is the root of all evil. Some people, being possessed by it, have been led astray from the faith, and have thrown themselves into many torments. 
11 For you, O man of God, flee from these things and seek righteousness, and godliness, and faith, and love, and patience, and gentleness. 
12 You must fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you have been called, and for which you have made a good declaration in the presence of many witnesses. 
13 I tell you the following thing in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and in the sight of Christ Jesus who made a good declaration to Pontius Pilate. 
14 Keep the commandment, and to live spotlessly and blamelessly, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
15 Which will occur in its own time by the hand of the blessed and only sovereign, the king of kings, and the Lord of lords. 
16 The one who alone has immortality, and dwells in an unapproachable light that no one has seen or can see, to whom belong honor and everlasting power. Amen. 
17 Command those who are rich in this world not to be arrogant, and not to put their hope in the material wealth of which they can be dispossessed, but to put their hope in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. 
18 Command them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. 
19 And thus build a good foundation for the time to come, in order to grasp the life that is true life. 
20 O Timothy, keep that which has been entrusted to you. Avoid vain and profane speeches, and the controversies of what is falsely called knowledge. 
21 Which some people claim to possessed and have thus departed from the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.
