1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of the chosen of God and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness. 
2 And which is founded on the hope of eternal life, and which has been promised before the world began by God who does not lie. 
3 And who has revealed his word at the proper time, through the preaching entrusted to me by the commandment of God our Savior. 
4 To Titus, my true son in our common faith. Grace and peace to you from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior. 
5 I left you in Crete so that you should set in order what was left unfinished, and appoint elders in every town, according to the instructions that you have received from me. 
6 If there is found a blameless man, the husband of one wife, having faithful children who are not accused of debauchery or riot. 
7 For a bishop must be blameless, as a steward of God, not arrogant, not quick-tempered, not given to drunkenness, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain. 
8 But hospitable, someone who love goodness, self-controlled, honest, righteous, gentle. 
9 Someone who hold fast to the trustworthy message as it has been taught by us, so that he may be able to encourage others in the healthy doctrine and to refute those who oppose it. 
10 For there are many rebellious people, vain talkers and deceivers, especially among the circumcised. 
11 The mouths of such people must be silenced. They are corrupting entire houses by teaching things for shameful gain, things that they ought not to teach. 
12 One of their own prophets has said: Cretans are always liars, vicious beasts, lazy gluttons. 
13 This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, so that they may become holy in the faith. 
14 By rejecting Judaic fables, and the commandments of men who turn away from the truth. 
15 Everything is pure for those who are pure, but nothing is pure for those who are defiled and unbelieving, because their minds and consciences are defiled. 
16 They profess to know God, but they deny him by their deeds, being detestable, rebellious, and unfit for any good work.
