1 Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, and Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third. 
2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
3 And the sons of Bela [some were born after Jacob arrived in Egypt] were Addar, and Gera, and Abihud. 
4 And Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah. 
5 And Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram. 
6 And now these are the sons of Ehud [a famous distant descendant of Benjamin]. They were chiefs fathers among the the inhabitants of Geba who were carried to Manahath. 
7 Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera. Gera who carried them away begat Uzza and Ahihud. 
8 And Shaharaim [another distant descendant of Benjamin who was famous in his time] begat children in the land of Moab, after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
9 He begat, I say, of Hodesh s wife: Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam. 
10 And Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, and they were chiefs fathers. 
11 And of Hushim he begat Abitub and Elpaal. 
12 And the sons of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham, and Shemed. Shemed built Ono and Lod, and their villages. 
13 And Beriah and Shema, who were the chiefs fathers among the inhabitants of Aijalon. they did put to flight the inhabitants of Gath. 
14 And Ahio, and Shashak, and Jeremoth. 
15 And Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder.
16 And Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, they were the sons [descendants] of Beriah.
17 And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber. 
18 And Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, they were the sons [descendants] of Elpaal. 
19 Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi. 
20 And Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel. 
21 And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, they were the sons [descendants] of Shimei. 
22 Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel. 
23 Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan. 
24 And Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah. 
25 And Iphdeiah, and Penuel, they were the sons [descendants] of Shashak. 
26 And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah. 
27 And Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, they were the sons [descendants] of Jeroham. 
28 These were the chiefs fathers according to their generations, the princes. They dwelt in Jerusalem. 
29 And the father of Gibeon dwelt at Gibeon, and his wife's name was Maacah. 
30 And his firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab. 
31 And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher. 
32 And Mikloth begat Shimeah. They also dwelt with their brothers in Jerusalem, near their brothers. 
33 And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul. And Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
34 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal [Mephibosheth], and Merib-baal begat Micah. 
35 And the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz. 
36 And Ahaz begat Jehoaddah. And Jehoaddah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri begat Moza. 
37 And Moza begat Binea whose son was Rapha, and his son Eleasah, and his son Azel. 
38 And Azel had six sons, and here are their names: Azrikam, and Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
39 And the sons of Eshek his brother were Ulam his firstborn, and Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
40 And the sons of Ulam were valiant men of war who shot with the bow, and they had many sons and nephews namely a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons [descendants] of Benjamin.
