1 And the sons of Issachar were Tola, and Puah, and Jashub, and Shimron, four sons. 
2 And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, they were heads of the renowned households of which they were the fathers. And the descendants of Tola were valiant men of war in their generations, and the number of the soldiers among them was twenty two thousand and six hundred in the days of David. 
3 And the son of Uzzi was Izrahiah, and the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, and Isshiah. So five men who came from Uzzi and who were princes [among the children of Issachar]. 
4 And their descendants in their generations, when they were counted according to the houses of their fathers [as the children of israel were usually counted when they went to war], they reached at one time the number of thirty six thousand men of war because they had many wives and sons. 
5 And their brothers throughout all the families of Issachar were valiant men of war, and at that time they were eighty seven thousand according to their genealogies. 
6 And the sons [the famous descendants] of Benjamin were Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three men. 
7 And the sons [the famous descendants] of Bela were Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five men who were heads of the renowned households of which they were the fathers. They were valiant men of war in their genealogies, and they were at that time twenty two thousand and thirty four men of war. 
8 And the sons of Becher were Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher. 
9 And they were numbered by their genealogies according to the names of the chiefs of their fathers' houses in their generations, twenty thousand and two hundred valiant men of war at that time. 
10 And the son of Jediael was Bilhan, and the sons of Bilhan were Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
11 All these men were the sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers' houses. They were valiant men of war, and at that time they were numbered seventeen thousand and two hundred soldiers ready for war. 
12 Shuppim and the Huppim were the sons of Ir, but Hushim was the son of another. 
13 And the sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum. So they were the descendants of Bilhah [the concubine of Jacob]. 
14 The descendants of Manasseh: his concubine of Syria bore Machir the father of Gilead, and Asriel the son of Gilead is her descendant. 
15 And Machir took to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, and the name of their sister was Maacah. And the name of another descendant of the concubine of Machir was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had only daughters. 
16 And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and called his name Peresh, and the name of his [a] brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rekem. 
17 And the son of Ulam was Bedan. And there were also the sons of Gilead the son of Machir the son of Manasseh. 
18 And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
19 And the sons of Shemida were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam. 
20 And the descendants of Ephraim [by one of his son]: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eleadah his son, and Tahath his son. 
21 And Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son. And in that generation there were Ezer and Elead who had been killed by the men of Gath born in the land, because Ezer and Elead had gone down to steal their cattle. 
22 And their father whose name was Ephraim mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him. 
23 And his wife conceived and bore a son when he went to her, and he called his name Beriah because affliction was in his house. 
24.
25.
26.
27.
28. 
29.
30 And the sons of Asher were Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. 
31 The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel, and Malchiel was the father of Birzaith. 
32 And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
33 And he sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These were the children of Japhlet. 
34 And the sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram. 
35 And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal. 
36 And the sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah. 
37 Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera. 
38 And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara. 
39 And the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia. 
40 All these were the children [descendants] of Asher, the heads of their fathers' houses. They were noble men, and valiant men of war, and chiefs of the princes, and at that time the number by genealogies of those who were apt for war and for battle was twenty six thousand men.
