1 These are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father without having children. Therefore it was Eleazar and Ithamar who served in the priesthood. 
3 And David separated the chief fathers of families of the sons of Aaron into the two main categories. He did it with the help of Zadok who was of the sons [descendants] of Eleazar, and Abiathar who was of the sons [descendants] of Ithamar, in order to organize the work that they had to do to carry out their duties. 
4 And there were found more chiefs among the sons of Eleazar than among the sons of Ithamar, and all families were classified thus. And the sons of Eleazar had sixteen chief according to the households of their fathers, and the sons of Ithamar had eight chief fathers.
5 And their service times were then dictated by lot, for each of the two main categories. And thus the rulers of the sanctuary [the tabernacle where was the altar of burnt offerings] and the rulers of the house of God [where was the ark of the covenant] were of the sons of Eleazar and of the sons of Ithamar. 
6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethanel the scribe was of the Levites and he wrote the classification before the king and the princes, and before Zadok the priest and Abiathar the son of Ahimelech, and before the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the priests and of the Levites. One ancestral house was taken for Eleazar, and then one for Ithamar. 
7 And the first lot came out to Jehoiarib, and the second to Jedaiah. 
8 And the third to Harim, and the fourth to Seorim. 
9 And the fifth to Malchijah, and the sixth to Mijamin. 
10 And the seventh to Hakkoz, and the eighth to Abijah. 
11 And the ninth to Jeshua, and the tenth to Shecaniah. 
12 And the eleventh to Eliashib, and the twelfth to Jakim. 
13 And the thirteenth to Huppah, and the fourteenth to Jeshebeab. 
14 And the fifteenth to Bilgah, and the sixteenth to Immer. 
15 And the seventeenth to Hezir, and the eighteenth to Happizzez. 
16 And the nineteenth to Pethahiah, and the twentieth to Jehezkel. 
17 And the twenty first to Jachin, and the twenty second to Gamul. 
18 And the twenty third to Delaiah, and the twenty fourth to Maaziah. 
19 They were arranged thus in order to come into the house of Yahweh for their service which they did according to the ordinance of Aaron their father, as Yahweh the God of Israel had commanded him. 
20 And now these are the other sons of Levi: Of the sons [descendants] of Amram there was Shubael, and of the sons [descendants] of Shubael there was Jehdeiah. 
21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah there was Isshiah the chief. 
22 Of Izhari there was Shelomoth, and of the sons of Shelomoth there was Jahath. 
23 And the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, and Amariah the second, and Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
24 The sons of Uzziel was Micah, and the son of Micah was Shamir. 
25 The brother of Micah was Isshiah, and the son of Isshiah was Zechariah. 
26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi, and Jaaziah his descendant. 
27 The sons [descendants] of Merari through his descendant Jaaziah: Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 
28 Of Mahli came Eleazar who had no sons. 
29 Of Kish. The sons of Kish was Jerahmeel. 
30 And the sons of Mushi were Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons [descendants] of Levi according to their fathers' houses. 
31 And their service times were also dictated by lot, as for their brothers the sons of Aaron. It was done before king David, and Zadok, and Abiathar, and the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the priests and of the Levites. No difference was made between the chiefs of these ancestral houses.
