1 Now [at the time of Saul’s death] the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines and fell dead on the mount Gilboa. 
2 And the Philistines pursued Saul and his sons, and the Philistines killed Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the son of Saul. 
3 And then the effort of the battle was on Saul. And the archers did hit him, and he was injured by the archers. 
4 Then Saul said to his armorbearer: Draw your sword and pierce me with it, lest these uncircumcised come to mock me. But his armorbearer did not want to do it, for he was filled with fear. Therefore Saul took his sword and fell on it. 
5 And when his armorbearer saw it and thought that Saul was already dead, then he also threw himself on his sword and died. 
6 Thus Saul and his three sons, and all his house [his main servants], they perished together. 
7 And the people of Israel who were in the valley saw that the men of Israel had fled, and knew that Saul and his sons were dead. Therefore they forsook their cities and fled, and the Philistines came and dwelt there. 
8 And on the next day when the Philistines came to strip the dead, then they found Saul and his three sons fallen on the mount Gilboa. 
9 And they stripped him and took his armor, and cut off his head. And they caused it to travel throughout the land of the Philistines, in the houses of their idols and among the people. 
10 And they did put Saul's armor in the house of their god, and they did set up his head in the house of Dagon. 
11 And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul. 
12 Then all the valiant men arose, and they went and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons. And they brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under an oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days [they ate nothing during each of theses day but only at night before sleeping]. 
13 So Saul died because of his transgression which he committed against Yahweh, for he had not kept the word of Yahweh [this is how his misfortune had begun], and also because he asked counsel of one who communicates with the dead [to know how to behave with living people]. 
14 He did not follow the commandment of Yahweh who had commanded [by his servant Moses] not to do such a thing, and therefore Yahweh killed him and turned the kingdom to David the son of Jesse.
