1 And the sons of Reuben the eldest son of Israel. For he was the eldest son, but his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel because Reuben defiled his father's bed. However Joseph was not to be reckoned as the firstborn in the genealogy. 
2 For Judah was indeed mighty among his brothers, and it was announced that the prince will come from him, but the birthright belonged to Joseph. 
3 So the sons of Reuben the eldest son of Israel were Hanoch, and Pallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. 
4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, and Gog his son, and Shimei his son. 
5 And Micah his son, and Reaiah his son, and Baal his son. 
6 And Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria carried away captive. He was a prince of the Reubenites. 
7 And when the brothers of Beerah in their families reckoned the genealogy of their generations, the chiefs were Jeiel, and Zechariah. 
8 And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel. He [his families] dwelt in Aroer, and as far as Nebo and Baal-meon. 
9 And eastward the people of Bela dwelt as far as the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, for they had many cattle in the land of Gilead. 
10 And in the days of Saul they made war against the Hagrites who fell by their hand, and they dwelt in their tents throughout the whole eastern part of Gilead. 
11 And the children of Gad dwelt opposite them in the land of Bashan, as far as Salecah. 
12 Joel was the first chief in Bashan, and Shapham was the second, and Janai, and Shaphat. 
13 And their brothers of the house of their fathers were Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber, seven. 
14 These are the descendants of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz. 
15 Ahi the son of Abdiel the son of Guni was chief of the household of their fathers. 
16 And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in its towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as their borders. 
17 All these persons were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah [who began to reign when his father Uzziah known as Azariah was still alive], and in the days of Jeroboam [the son of Joash] king of Israel. 
18 [And at the time of the war that they made in the days of Saul], the sons of Reuben and of Gad, and of the half of the tribe of Manasseh, all those among them who were valiant and able to bear shield and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skilful in war, they were forty four thousand and seven hundred and sixty men who had gone out to the war. 
19 And they [the two tribes and the half tribe] fought against the Hagrites, and against Jetur, and against Naphish, and against Nodab. 
20 And they received help against their enemies, and the Hagrites and all those who were with the Hagrites had been delivered into their hands. For those children of Israel cried to God in the battle, and he heard them because they had put their trust in him. 
21 And those children of Israel took away the livestock of their enemies namely fifty thousand camels, and two hundred and fifty thousand sheep, and two thousand donkeys, and a hundred thousand persons. 
22 For many of their enemies had been killed because the battle was of God. And those children of Israel had dwelt in their stead until the time when they have been carried away captive. 
23 And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land, from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir and mount Hermon because they were many. 
24 And these were the chiefs of their fathers' houses: Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel. They were strong men, valiant and famous, and chiefs of their fathers' houses. 
25 But they sinned against the God of their fathers, and played the whore [they prostituted their souls] by the fact of following the gods of the people of the land whom God had destroyed before them. 
26 And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria who was also called Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and he carried them away captive, namely the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half of the tribe of Manasseh. And he brought them to Halah, and to Habor, and to Hara, and to the river of Gozan, and they have dwelt there to this day.
