1 Now David assembled at Jerusalem all the princes of Israel, namely the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies who served the king in turn, and the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, and those who were over the possessions of the king and of his sons, and the eunuchs, and the mighty men, and all the men of valor. 
2 Then king David stood up on his feet and said: Listen to me, my brothers and my people. I wanted to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and for the footstool of our God. And now I have made preparations for the building. 
3 But God had said to me, You will not build a house for my name, because you have been a man of war and have shed blood. 
4 Nevertheless Yahweh the God of Israel chose me out of all my fathers' houses to be king over Israel forever. For he had announced [by the mouth of his servant Jacob] that a prince would come from Judah, and he chose my father's house out of the houses of Judah, and he was delighted in me among the sons of my father to make me king over all Israel. 
5 And he has given me many sons but he has chosen Solomon among all my sons to sit on the throne of the kingdom of Yahweh in Israel. 
6 And he said to me, Solomon your son will build my house and my courtyards. For I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father. 
7 And I will establish his kingdom forever, if he is steadfast in keeping my commandments and my ordinances, as he is doing today. 
8 Now therefore I command to each of you in the sight of all Israel which is the assembly of Yahweh, and in the sight of our God who hears us: Keep and seek all the commandments of Yahweh your God, so that you may possess this good land and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you forever. 
9 And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For Yahweh probes all the hearts and he understands all the intentions of the thoughts. If you seek him then he will let himself be found by you, but if you forsake him then he will leave you forever. 
10 Take heed now, for Yahweh has chosen you to build the house of the sanctuary. Be strong and do it. 
11 Then David gave to his son Solomon the pattern of the portico of the house, and of its houses [the rooms around the holy place and the most holy place], and of its treasuries, and of its the upper rooms, and of its inner rooms [the holy place and the most holy place], and of the place of the mercy seat [in the most holy place]. 
12 David gave Solomon the pattern of all that was in his mind concerning the courtyards of the house of Yahweh, and all the chambers around the house, and the treasuries of the house of God, and the treasuries of the dedicated things. 
13 And David told Solomon about what he had planned for the organization of the functions of the priests and of the Levites, and everything that pertained to the service of the house of Yahweh, and all the vessels for the service in the house of Yahweh. 
14 David gave Solomon the weights of gold to be used for the vessels of gold, for all the vessels of every service, and the weights of silver to be used for the vessels of silver, for all the vessels of every service. 
15 And also the weight of gold for the candlesticks, and the gold for their lamps, with the weight of each candlestick and of its lamps. And the weight of silver for the candlesticks of silver, with the weight of each candlestick and of its lamps, according to the use of each candlestick. 
16 And the weight of gold for the tables of the showbreads, for each table. And the weight of the silver for the tables of silver. 
17 And pure gold for the flesh-hooks, and for the cups, and for the plates, and for the bowls, the weight of gold for each bowl. And for the bowls of silver, the weight for each bowl. 
18 And the weight of pure gold for the altar of incense, and the weight of gold to cover the chariots of the cherubim that should spread their wings over the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. 
19 And David said: I have known all this things when I was writing it by the hand of Yahweh [namely under the power of the spirit of Yahweh], all the work of this pattern. 
20 And David said to Solomon his son: Be strong and of a valiant courage, and do it. Do not fear and do not be discomforted, for Yahweh God who is my God will be with you. He will not forsake you and he will not fail you, until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of Yahweh. 
21 And behold there are the companies of the priests and of the Levites for all the service of the house of God. They will be with you for the whole work, and every willing man who is skilled for any manner of service. And the princes [of the tribes] and all the people will be wholly under your commands.
