1 Then all Israel gathered themselves to David at Hebron and said: Behold we are your bones and your flesh. 
2 In the past when Saul was king, it was you who brought Israel in and out. And Yahweh your God said to you: You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will be captain over my people Israel. 
3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them at Hebron before Yahweh, and they anointed David king over Israel according to the word of Yahweh that he had spoken by the hand of Samuel. 
4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (the same is Jebus) where were the Jebusites who were the inhabitants of the land. 
5 And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, You will not enter here. Nevertheless David captured the stronghold of Zion, which is the city of David. 
6 And David had said on that day, Whoever first defeats the Jebusites will be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, therefore he was made captain. 
7 And David dwelt in the stronghold therefore they called it the city of David. 
8 And David built the city on every side, from Millo and all around, and Joab repaired the other parts of the city. 
9 And David became greater and greater, for Yahweh the God of armies was with him. 
10 Now these are the chiefs of the valiant men who served David. They joined their strength with him in his kingdom with all Israel, in order to make him king over Israel according to the word of Yahweh. 
11 These are the names of the mighty men [the heroes] whom David had. Jashobeam the son of a Hachmonite who was the bravest of the thirty. He lifted up his spear against three [eight] hundred men and killed them at one time. 
12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, who was one of the three most valiant men. 
13 He was with David at Pasdammim where the Philistines had gathered together to battle. There was a piece of field full of barley, and the people fled before the Philistines. 
14 And they stood in the middle of the field and defended it, and killed the Philistines. So Yahweh gave a great victory. 
15 And three of [those who had been called] the thirty heroes went down to the rock to meet David into the cave of Adullam, and the army of the Philistines had encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 
16 And David was then in the stronghold, and there was a garrison of the Philistines at Bethlehem. 
17 And David had a desire and he said: Who will give me to drink of the water from the well which is near the gate of Bethlehem. 
18 And those three men went through the camp of the Philistines, and drew water from the well which is near the gate of Bethlehem, and took it, and brought it to David. But David did not want to drink of it, and he poured it on the ground before Yahweh. 
19 And David said: May my God not allow me to do this thing. Will I drink of the blood of these men who have gone in jeopardy of their lives. For it is at the risk of their lives that they brought it. So David did not want to drink of it. This is what these three mighty men did [and they had been called the three heroes]. 
20 And Abishai the brother of Joab was the chief of the three heroes. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred men and killed them, and he was renowned among the three heroes. 
21 He was more honorable than the other two among the three heroes, and he was their leader, but he had not equal any of the first three of the the thirty heroes. 
22 And [another member of the three heroes was] Benaiah of Kabzeel, the son of Jehoiada the son of a valiant man. He had done mighty deeds. He killed two strong men of Moab, and he also went down and killed a lion in the midst of a pit at the time of snow. 
23 And Benaiah killed an Egyptian who was a man with a great appearance with a height of five cubits. The Egyptian had a spear like a weaver's beam in his hand, and Benaiah went against him with a staff, and Benaiah plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear.
24 This is what Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and he was renowned among the three heroes. 
25 He was honorable among the thirty heroes but he had not equal any of the first three of the thirty heroes. And David made him one of his advisors. 
26 And these now are other mighty men of the army. Asahel the brother of Joab. And Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem.
27 And Shammoth the Harodite. And Helez the Pelonite. 
28 And Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. And Abiezer the Anathothite. 
29 And Sibbecai the Husathite. And Ilai the Ahohite.
30 And Maharai the Netophathite. And Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite.
31 And Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin. And Benaiah the Pirathonite. 
32 And Hurai of the rivers of Gaash. And Abiel the Arbathite.
33 And Azmaveth the Baharumite. And Eliahba the Shaalbonite. 
34 And the sons of Hashem the Gizonite. And Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite. 
35 And Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite. And Eliphal the son of Ur.
36 And Hepher the Mecherathite. And Ahijah the Pelonite. 
37 And Hezro the Carmelite. And Naarai the son of Ezbai. 
38 And Joel the brother of Nathan. And Mibhar the son of Hagri. 
39 And Zelek the Ammonite. And Naharai the Berothite an armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah. 
40 And Ira the Ithrite. And Gareb the Ithrite. 
41 And Uriah the Hittite. And Zabad the son of Ahlai. 
42 And Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, who was a captain of the Reubenites and had thirty men with him. 
43 And Hanan the son of Maacah. And Joshaphat the Mithnite. 
44 And Uzzia the Ashterathite. And Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite. 
45 And Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother the Tizite. 
46 And Eliel the Mahavite. And Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam. And Ithmah the Moabite. 
47 And Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
