1 Thus all Israel were recorded by their genealogies and behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel. And [the people of] Judah was carried away captive to Babylon because of their transgression. 
2 And the first inhabitants who came to dwelt in their possessions in their cities [after they were carried away captive] were of the people of Israel, namely the priests and the Levites and the Nethinims. 
3 And after that return to their land, there dwelt in Jerusalem some remarkable men of the sons [descendants] of Judah, and of Benjamin, and of Ephraim, and of Manasseh [and also others as the Levites]. 
4 Among the descendants of Perez the son of Judah, there were Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani. 
5 Among the Shelanites [descendants of Shelah the son of Judah]: Asaiah the firstborn [the chief], and his sons. 
6 And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their relatives, six hundred and ninety men. 
7 And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah. 
8 And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi the son of Michri. And Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah. 
9 And their brothers according to their genealogies, nine hundred and fifty six men. All these men were chief fathers of the families of their fathers. 
10 And of the classes of priests [according to a classification that had been made at the time of David]: Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin. 
11 And Azariah [also called Seraiah] the son [a descendant] of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam [this name was deliberately omitted in the generations of the sons of Levi and his existence is now specified], the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub who had been the chief of the house of God. 
12 And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah. And Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer. 
13 And their brothers the chiefs of the houses of their fathers, [who were over] one thousand and seven hundred and sixty men who did fit for the work of the service of the house of God. 
14 And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah of the sons [descendants] of Merari. 
15 And Bakbakkar, and Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah who was the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son [a descendant] of Asaph. 
16 And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. And Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites. 
17 And the doormen were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brothers. Shallum was the chief. 
18 They stood on the east of the gate of the king. They were gatekeepers for the camp of the children of Levi. 
19 And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers from his father's house the Korahites, they were over the work of the service in order to keep the thresholds of the tent. For their fathers had been over the camp of Yahweh, the keepers of the entry. 
20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar had been their ruler [in their genealogies], and Yahweh was with him. 
21 Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
22 All these were chosen to be gatekeepers, two hundred and twelve men who were counted by their genealogies in their towns. David and Samuel the seer [who had taken the initiative] had established them [their fathers] in their functions. 
23 So they and their children had kept the gates of the house of Yahweh, even the house of the tent of meeting, by wards. 
24 And the gatekeepers were in four quarters: on the east, and on the west, and on the north, and on the south. 
25 And their brothers who dwelt in their villages regularly come to help them. They came for seven days each time. 
26 For the four chief of the gatekeepers were continually in office. They were of the Levites and were responsibles for the rooms and the treasuries of the house of God. 
27 And they lodged all around the house of God, because they were responsible for it and they caused it to be opened every morning. 
28 And some of the Levites were responsible for the vessels of service. For these were counted whenever they were taken out, and they were counted whenever they were were brought in. 
29 Others were responsible for the others utensils, all the utensils of the sanctuary, and for the fine flour, and for the wine, and for the oil, and for the incense, and for the special oil. 
30 But it was the priests who prepared the special oil. 
31 And Mattithiah, one of the Levites who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was responsible for the things that were made in the frying pans. 
32 And some of their brothers among the sons of Kohath were responsible for the showbreads, to prepare it each sabbath. 
33 These [above] were the singers. They were chiefs fathers of the families of the Levites, and they dwelt in the chambers [of the temple], and they were exempt from all other duties because they worked day and night. 
34 These [above] were the chiefs fathers of the families of the Levites according to their generations. They dwelt in Jerusalem. 
35 And Jeiel the father of Gibeon dwelt at Gibeon, and his wife's name was Maacah. 
36 And his firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab. 
37 And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth. 
38 And Mikloth begat Shimeam. They also dwelt with their brothers in Jerusalem, near their brothers. 
39 And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
40 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal [Mephibosheth]. Merib-baal begat Micah. 
41 And the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea. 
42 And Ahaz begat Jarah [Jehoaddah], and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri begat Moza. 
43 And Moza begat Binea whose son was Rephaiah, and his son Eleasah, and his son Azel. 
44 And Azel had six sons, and here are their names: Azrikam, and Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. These are the sons of Azel.
