1 So David had [previously] built houses for himself in the city of David. And now he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. 
2 And David said: No one should carry the ark of God except the Levites, because Yahweh has chosen them to carry the ark of Yahweh and to serve him forever. 
3 And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem in order to bring up the ark of Yahweh to its place which he had prepared for it. 
4 And David assembled the sons of Aaron and the Levites. 
5 From the sons of Kohath there were Uriel the chief, and his brothers, one hundred and twenty men. 
6 From the sons of Merari there were Asaiah the chief, and his brothers, two hundred and twenty men. 
7 From the sons of Gershom there were Joel the chief, and his brothers, one hundred and thirty men. 
8 From the sons of Elizaphan there were Shemaiah the chief, and his brothers, two hundred men. 
9 From the sons of Hebron there Eliel the chief, and his brothers, eighty men. 
10 From the sons of Uzziel there were Amminadab the chief, and his brothers, one hundred and twelve men. 
11 And David called Zadok and Abiathar among the priests, and among the Levites he called Uriel, and Asaiah, and Joel, and Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab. 
12 And he said to them: You are the chief fathers of the Levites. Sanctify yourselves, you and your brothers, in order to bring up the ark of Yahweh the God of Israel to the place that I have prepared for it. 
13 For it is because you were not there at the first that Yahweh our God made a breach among us [if you were there then you would not have behaved like the one whom Yahweh has smitten]. For we have not sought him according to the law. 
14 So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
15 And the sons of the Levites bore the ark of God on their shoulders with the bars, as Moses had commanded according to the word of Yahweh. 
16 And David spoke to the chief of the Levites in order to appoint some of their brothers to sing with instruments of music, with psalteries and harps and cymbals, and to lift up their voices with joy. 
17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel [a descendant of Kohath], and among his brothers [the descendants of Gershom] they chose Asaph the son of Berechiah, and among their brothers the sons [descendants] of Merari they chose Ethan the son of Kushaiah. 
18 And there were with them a second group of their brothers, among whom were Zechariah, and Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel. They had to walk closer to the ark. 
19 So the singers Heman and Asaph and Ethan were appointed to sound with cymbals of brass. 
20 And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, they had psalteries of Alamoth. 
21 And Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, they had harps of Sheminith to excel. 
22 And Chenaniah the chief of the Levites was over the song. He instructed about the song because he was skilful. 
23 And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters of the ark. 
24 And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, who were of the priests, they had to sound the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed-edom and Jehiah were porters of the ark. 
25 So David and the elders of Israel, and the captains of thousands, they went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the house of Obed-edom with rejoicings. 
26 And they sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams, and it was with the help of God that the Levites carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh [because no incident occurred]. 
27 And David was clothed with a linen garment, as all the Levites who bore the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the chief musician of the singers. And David had on him a linen ephod. 
28 Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh with shouting, and with the sounds of the cornets, and of the trumpets, and of the cymbals, and of the psalteries, and of the harps. 
29 And as the ark of the covenant of Yahweh entered the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at a window and saw that king David was jumping and dancing before Yahweh. And she despised him in her heart.
