1 Now Hiram the king of Tyre had previously sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and stonemasons, in order to build a house for David. 
2 Therefore David had known that Yahweh had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was exalted for the sake of his people Israel. 
3 And David took more wives at Jerusalem, and David begot more sons and daughters. 
4 And these are the names of the children whom he had at Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon. 
5 And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet. 
6 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia. 
7 And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet. 
8 [And also] when the Philistines had heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, then all the Philistines had come up to seek David. When David had heard it, he had gone out against them. 
9 For the Philistines arrived and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 
10 And David inquired of God by saying: Will I go up against the Philistines, will you deliver them into my hand. And Yahweh said to David: Go up, for I will deliver them into your hand. 
11 So David came to Baal-perazim, and smote them there. And David said, God has pushed my enemies before me like waters that escape through breaches. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal-perazim. 
12 And they left their gods there, and David commanded his men to burn those things with fire.
13 And the Philistines came again and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 
14 And David inquired of God again, and God said to him: You will not go up to follow them. But turn away from them, and come on them opposite the mulberry trees. 
15 And when you hear the sound of footsteps on the tops of the mulberry trees, then hurry up and attack them because it is Yahweh who walks before you to smite the army of the Philistines. 
16 And David did as Yahweh commanded him, and he defeated the army of the Philistines from Gibeon to Gezer. 
17 And the fame of David went out into all lands, and Yahweh brought the fear of him on all nations.
