1 The sons of Levi were Gershom, and Kohath, and Merari. 
2 And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
3 And the children of Amram were Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron were: Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
4 And Eleazar begat Phinehas, and Phinehas begat Abishua. 
5 And Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi. 
6 And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth. 
7 And Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub. 
8 And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz. 
9 And Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan. 
10 And Johanan begat Azariah who was priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem. 
11 And Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub. 
12 And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum. 
13 And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat Azariah. 
14 And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak. 
15 And Jehozadak went with the captives when Yahweh carried Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
16 So the sons of Levi were Gershom, and Kohath, and Merari. 
17 And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
18 And the sons of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
19 And the sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. And now these are the families of Levi according to their fathers' houses. 
20 Of Gershom: Libni his son, and Jahath his son, and Zimmah his son. 
21 And Joah his son, and Iddo his son, and Zerah his son, and Jeatherai his son. 
22 Of Kohath: Amminadab [also called Izhar] his son, and Korah his son, and Assir his son. 
23 And Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son. 
24 And Tahath his son, and Uriel his son, and Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son. 
25 And the sons of Elkanah were Amasai and Ahimoth.
26 As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son. 
27 And Eliab his son, and Jeroham his son, and Elkanah his son. 
28 And the sons of Samuel: Vashni the firstborn and Abijah the second. 
29 The sons of Merari: Mahli, and Libni his son, and Shimei his son. and Uzzah his son. 
30 And Shimea his son, and Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son. 
31 And now here are those whom David established to sing in the house of Yahweh after the ark had a resting place. 
32 And they served before the new tabernacle, namely the new tent that David had set up near his own house to put the ark of the covenant of God in it, until the time when Solomon built the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem. And at that time they have continued to serve according to their custom. 
33 Now these are those who served in that way with their children. Of the sons of the Kohathites there was Heman the singer the son of Joel, the son of Samuel. 
34 The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah. 
35 The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai. 
36 The son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah. 
37 The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiashaph, the son of Korah. 
38 The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
39 And his brother Asaph who stood on his right hand, namely Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimeah. 
40 The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah. 
41 The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah. 
42 The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei. 
43 The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi. 
44 And their brothers the sons of Merari were on the left hand of Heman, and among them was Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch. 
45 The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah. 
46 The son of Amzi, ​​the son of Bani, the son of Shemer. 
47 The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
48 And their brothers the Levites [members of the tribe of Levi] were appointed to all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God [the tabernacle built by Moses which was at Gibeon and which no longer contained the ark of the covenant of God]. 
49 But Aaron [his successor who had been anointed from among his descendants to replace him in the office of high priest] and his sons [the other descendants of Aaron] were the only ones who burned incense on the altar of burnt offerings and on the altar of incense, and performed all the duties in the most holy place, and made atonement for Israel according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
50 And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, and Phinehas his son, and Abishua his son. 
51 And Bukki his son, and Uzzi his son, and Zerahiah his son. 
52 And Meraioth his son, and Amariah his son, and Ahitub his son. 
53 And Zadok his son, and Ahimaaz his son. 
54 And these are the dwelling places of the sons of Aaron from the family of the Kohathites, according to their cities in their borders. For the first lot was for them. 
55 So they gave them Hebron with its suburbs all around in the land of Judah. 
56 But the fields of the city and its villages was given to Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
57 And a city of refuge [for murderers] was given to the sons of Aaron in Hebron, and the other cities which were given to them were Libnah with their suburbs, and Jattir and Eshtemoa with their suburbs. 
58 And Hilen with its suburbs, and Debir with its suburbs. 
59 And Ashan with its suburbs, and Beth-shemesh with its suburbs. 
60 And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its suburbs, and Allemeth with its suburbs, and Anathoth with its suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities. 
61 And the remaining of the sons of Kohath in the family of the tribe [of the Levites] were given ten cities, [some of which were] out of the inheritance of the half tribe, namely the half of the tribe of Manasseh who are on this side of the Jordan westward. 
62 And the sons of Gershom throughout their families were given thirteen cities, [some of which were] out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
63 And the sons of Merari throughout their families were given twelve cities, [some of which were] out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun. 
64 Thus the children of Israel gave the cities with their suburbs to the Levites. 
65 And they gave by lot [to the sons of Aaron] these cities which are mentioned by name and which were out of the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Benjamin. 
66 And the remaining of the families of the children of Kohath had cities also out of the inheritance of the tribe of Ephraim. 
67 And they gave them Shechem with its suburbs on the mount  Ephraim for a city of refuge. And they also gave them Gezer with its suburbs. 
68 And Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth-horon with its suburbs. 
69 And Aijalon with its suburbs, and Gath-rimmon [name change] with its suburbs. 
70 And out of the half of the tribe of Manasseh: Aner [name change] with its suburbs, and Bileam [name change] with its suburbs, for the families of the remaining of the sons of Kohath. 
71 And they gave to the sons of Gershom, out of the inheritance of the family of the other half of the tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with its suburbs and Ashtaroth [name change] with its suburbs. 
72 And out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its suburbs, and Daberath with its suburbs. 
73 And Ramoth with its suburbs [name change], and Anem [name change] with its suburbs. 
74 And out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its suburbs, and Abdon with its suburbs. 
75 And Hukok with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs. 
76 And out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh with its suburbs in Galilee, and Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim with its suburbs. 
77 And the remaining of the Levites, namely the sons of Merari, they were given out of the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono [name change] with its suburbs, and Tabor [name change] with its suburbs. 
78 And on the other side of the Jordan opposite Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs. 
79 And Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs. 
80 And out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth with its suburbs in Gilead, and Mahanaim with its suburbs. 
81 And Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.
