1 Moreover, brothers, I remind you of the gospel that I preached to you, which you received and in which you stand. 
2 And by which you are saved, if you firmly cling to the word that I have preached to you. Otherwise, you believed in vain. 
3 For I first transmitted to you what I myself received, namely that Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the scriptures. 
4 And that he was buried, and that he has been raised from the dead on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures. 
5 And that he has appeared to Cephas, and then to the twelve. 
6 After that, he has appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers at the same time. Most of them are still alive today, but some have fallen asleep. [Now it is evident that it is not the accuracy of all these details that constitutes what a disciple must believe in order to become a righteous person, but the useful part of the information that is given: Christ lived as a man and was killed without having done anything wrong, and shortly afterwards he has been raised from the dead and has been seen by many witnesses, and he is now alive since he can no longer die, and he is in a dimension that is among us but which we do not see with our eyes.] 
7 After that, he has appeared to James, and then to all the apostles. 
8 And last of all, he has appeared to me also, as to one born out of due time.
9 For I am the least of the apostles, and do not even deserve to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 
10 But I have become what I am, by the grace of God. And his grace that he has given me has not been fruitless, for I have labored more abundantly than all of them. But I am not the one who has done it, for it has been done by the grace of God that was with me. 
11 So whether it is I or they, this is what we preach and this is what you have believed. 
12 Now if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead. 
13 If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not been raised from the dead. 
14 And if Christ has not been raised from the dead, then our preaching is useless and your faith is useless. 
15 And in addition to that, we would be false witnesses of God. For we would have testified against God by claiming that he has raised Christ from the dead, when in fact he would not have raised Christ from the dead since the dead do not rise again. 
16 For if the dead do not rise again, then Christ has not been raised from the dead. 
17 And if Christ has not been raised from the dead, then your faith is useless and you are still in your sins. [That is to say, we have caused you to commit sins toward those whom you previously considered to be your gods, since we have caused you to turn away from them.] 
18 And moreover, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished [if the dead do not rise again.]  
19 If we ​​have hoped in Christ only for this life, without there being a life after the death of the flesh, then we are the most to be pitied among all the people in the world. 
20 But now Christ has been raised from the dead, and he is the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 
21 For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. 
22 For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive. 
23 But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruit, and then, at his coming, those who belong to Christ. 
24 Then the end will come, when he will give the kingdom to God the Father, after he has destroyed all dominion and all authority and power [which is different from his own]. 
25 For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. 
26 The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. 
27 For God has put everything under his feet. But when it is says that everything has been put under him, it is clear that this does not include the one who has put everything under him.  
28 And when all things have been subjected to him, then the Son also will subjected himself to the one who subjected all things to him, so that God may be all in all. 
29 Otherwise, what are those who are being baptized for the dead actually doing. If the dead do not rise at all, then why do people get baptized for them. 
30 And what about us. Why do we put ourselves in danger every hour. 
31 Every day I am exposed to death, I testify it, brothers, by the pride that I have in you through Christ Jesus our Lord. 
32 If I have fought with wild beasts at Ephesus for merely human reasons, then what benefit does this offer me. If the dead do not rise, then let us eat and drink because tomorrow we will die. [That is to say, if I have risked being killed in my desire to teach the knowledge of our Lord, it is because I know that the dead will be risen, and I know that I must live for the Lord and not for myself.] 
33 Do not be deceived. Evil companionships corrupt good morals. 
34 Awake and live righteously, sin no more. For some of you do not know God, and you should be ashamed of it. 
35 But someone will ask: How are the dead raised. What kind of body will they have [since Christ is alive and will never die again]. 
36 O fool, what you sow does not come to life unless it dies. 
37 And what you sow is not the body that will be, but just a seed, perhaps of wheat or of something else. 
38 Then God gives it a body as he pleases, and to each seed he gives its own body. 
39 All flesh is not the same flesh. For there is one kind of flesh for men, and another for beasts, and another for birds, and another for fishes. 
40 There are also celestial bodies, and terrestrial bodies. But the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. 
41 There is one glory for the sun, and another glory for the moon, and another glory for the stars. For one star differs from another star in glory. 
42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, and it is raised in incorruption. 
43 It is sown in dishonor, and it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, and it is raised in power. 
44 It is sown a natural body, and it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is also a spiritual body. 
45 And so it is written, 'The first man Adam became a living soul'. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 
46 And now, what is spiritual does not come first. What is natural comes first, and then what is spiritual. 
47 The first man is of the earth, earthy. The second man of the heaven. 
48 As was the earthy man, so also are those who are earthy. And as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. 
49 And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly. 
50 Now I say the following thing, brothers: Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Corruption cannot inherit incorruption. 
51 Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed. 
52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed. 
53 For this corruptible body must put on incorruption, and this mortal body must put on immortality. 
54 When the corruptible puts on incorruption, and this mortal puts on immortality, then it will be according to the following saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. 
55 O death, where is your victory. O death, where is your sting. 
56 The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. 
57 But let us give thanks to God, who has given us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
58 Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, and immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord [because there is an afterlife].
