1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, you also will do according to the order that I have given to the churches of Galatia. 
2 On the first day of the week, let each of you put aside in store whatever he can afford, so that there may be no collections when I come. 
3 And when I arrive, I will send those whom you will approve to carry your gift to Jerusalem, and I will give them letters. 
4 And if I find it appropriate that I go there too, that is to say if your gifts are impressive, then they will go with me. 
5 I will come to you after I have gone through Macedonia. For I will go through Macedonia. 
6 Perhaps I will stay with you for a while, or even spend the winter, so that you may help me on my way wherever I go. 
7 For I do not want to see you now just in passing. For I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits. 
8 But I will stay at Ephesus until Pentecost. 
9 For a great door has opened for me to do an effective work, but there are many adversaries. 
10 Now if Timothy comes, then make sure that he is without fear among you. For he is doing the work of the Lord, as I also do. 
11 Therefore let no one despise him. Send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me. For the brothers and I are waiting for him. 
12 Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers, but it was not at all his will to come to you now. He will come to you when he has the opportunity. 
13 Be careful, stand firmly in the faith, have courage and be strong. 
14 Let all that you do be done in love. 
15 And now, brothers, you know that the household of Stephanas is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints. 
16 I urge you to seek to collaborate with such people, and with everyone who works to help us. 
17 I am glad of the arrival of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus. For they have allowed us not to greatly feel your absence. 
18 For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, I ask you to have a high opinion of such men. 
19 The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Priscilla, together with the church that meets in their house, send you hearty greetings in the Lord. 
20 All the brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
21 I greet you, I Paul, with my own hand. 
22 If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha. [Consider that such a person is an irrational person.] 
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
24 My love is with you all in Christ Jesus.
