1 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother. 
2 To the church of God that is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, and to all those who call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, their Lord and ours. 
3 May grace and peace be given to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
4 I give continual thanks to my God concerning you, for the grace of God which has been given to you in Christ Jesus. 
5 For in him you have been filled with all the riches of speech and knowledge. 
6 As the testimony of Christ has been firmly established among you. 
7 And you lack no gift, and are waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
8 He will also establish you to the end, so that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
9 God is faithful, he who has called you into the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord. 
10 I exhort you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to speak with one voice, all of you, and to have no divisions among you. You must be perfectly united in the same spirit and in the same feeling. [That is to say, you must seek only the glorification of the truth in everything that you do. You may disagree on how to achieve a particular result, but you must agree on the result to be achieved.] 
11 For it has been declared to me, by those who are of the household of Chloe, that there are discussions of a strange nature among you, O my brothers. 
12 I mean that each of you speaks thus: I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or I am of Christ. [Now these strange discussions come from the fact that no one knows the exact definition of eternal life in those days, but only the definition of faith.] 
13 Is Christ divided. Has Paul been crucified for you. Or have you been baptized in the name of Paul. 
14 I thank God that I have not baptized any of you, except Crispus and Gaius.
15 For in this way no one will say that he has been baptized in my name. 
16 And I have baptized also the household of Stephanas. And besides that, I do not think that I have baptized any other person.
17 For it is not to baptize that Christ has sent me, but to proclaim the gospel. And I must do it without the wisdom of speech, so that the cross of Christ may not be made of none effect. [That is to say, I express myself in a way that can be understood even by people who are not educated, because Jesus died for everyone.] 
18 For the preaching of the cross is foolishness to those who are lost, but to us who are saved it is the power of God. 
19 For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will destroy the understanding of the intelligent. 
20 Where is the wise. Where is the scribe. Where is the disputer of this world. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world. 
21 For since the world in its wisdom has not known God in the wisdom of God, it has pleased God to save believers by the foolishness of preaching. 
22 The Jews ask for miracles, and the Greeks seek wisdom. 
23 But we preach Christ crucified, and it is a scandal to the Jews and madness to the Greeks. 
24 But it is the power of God and the wisdom of God to those who are called, both from among Jews and from among Greeks. 
25 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 
26 Consider, brothers, that among you who have been called there are not many wise according to the flesh, nor many mighty, nor many noble. 
27 But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the strong things. 
28 And God has chosen the things that are insignificant according to the world, and the things that are despised, the things that are not, in order to bring to nought the things that are. 
29 So that no flesh may boast before God. 
30 He is the one who has allowed us to believe in Jesus Christ who is our wisdom from God, and our righteousness, and our sanctification, and our redemption. 
31 According to the following scripture: Let the one who glorifies himself glory in the Lord.
