1 Be imitators of me, as I myself am of Christ. 
2 I praise you for the fact that you remember me in all things, and because you retain my instructions as I gave them to you. 
3 But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and man is the head of woman, and God is the head of Christ. 
4 Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head.
5 But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head [that is to say, she dishonors the message of God before the men to whom she prophesies because she presents to them not her humility but her beauty]. For It is as if she chose to shave before presenting herself to her husband. [Paul lived when the temple of the Jews, built to perform the rituals of the law given by Moses, had not yet been destroyed. And here Paul writes a letter that will be given to one of the communities that he has created in different places in those days, and he is explaining how to behave in a life situation in which the disciples of Jesus often find themselves. For the disciples of Jesus could meet in those days to talk about their personal business, but also to maintain the knowledge of the Lord in an environment where this doctrine is misunderstood and considered as being strange, and also to pray to God to hasten his work by allowing the knowledge of the Lord Jesus to fill the earth through the preaching of his disciples. And prophets who have visions concerning events close in time are among the disciples of Jesus, because the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy that inspired all the Jewish scriptures. In the same way, the Jews also pray when they go to their temple, either because they do not know exactly what is taught by the disciples of Jesus or because they refuse to believe it, and this temple will be destroyed a few years after the death of Paul.] 
6 For if a woman does not cover her head [while she is praying or prophesying in an assembly], then she should also cut her hair [since her intention is to get noticed by others]. 
7 A man should not cover his head [while he is praying or prophesying in an assembly]. For he is the image and glory of God, while the woman is the glory of the man. 
8 For the man did not come from the woman, but the woman came from the man. 
9 And it is not because of the woman that the man has been created, but it is because of the man that the woman has been created. 
10 This is why the woman, because of the angels, must have on her head a sign of the authority on which she depends [while she is praying or prophesying in an assembly]. 
11 However, in the Lord, the woman is not without the man and the man is not without the woman. 
12 For the first woman came from the first man, but after that, men are born from women. And all things come from God. 
13 Judge for yourselves. Is it suitable for a woman to pray to God [in an assembly] without covering her head. 
14 Does not nature itself teach you that it is a shame for a man to wear long hair. [That is to say, it is something unusual that catches the eye and makes people wonder. For even in the law given by Moses to the children of Jacob, an ordinary man is not supposed to shave while he is fulfilling a nazirite vow, but he must shave his head when he has finished fulfilling that vow.] 
15 But it is a glory for a woman to have long hair. For her hair has been given her as a covering [and as something that pleases men]. 
16 If someone desires to argue about this thing [that is to say, concerning the appearances that women and men should have while they are praying to God in a congregation in the presence of other people], then he should keep in mind that we do not have this custom [as Jews whose women often pray near the temple built to perform the rituals of the Law given by Moses], and that the churches of God do not have this custom [that is to say, the churches of God that are in Jerusalem]. 
17 What I have wanted to prevent by ordering you to behave in this way is that you may gather together not to become better, but to become worse. 
18 For I have already learned that there are dissensions among you [concerning the rules of etiquette] when you come together in the church, and I partly believe it. 
19 For there must also be sects among you, so that those who are approved may be recognized as such among you. 
20 So when you gather together, it is not to eat a meal of the Lord [as you should do]. 
21 For when you sit down to eat, each begins by taking his own meal. And one is hungry, while the other is drunk. 
22 Do you not have houses to eat and drink in. You despise the church of God, and shame those who are poor. What can I say concerning this thing. Will I praise you. I do not praise you concerning this thing. 
23 For I have received from the Lord what I have taught you. It is that the Lord Jesus, in the night in which he was betrayed, took bread. 
24 And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said: Take and eat. This is my body, which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. 
25 Likewise, after supper, he took the cup and said: This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.
26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord, until he comes again. 
27 Therefore whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily is sinning against the body and the blood of the Lord. 
28 Therefore let every person examine himself, and in so doing let him eat of this bread and drink of this cup. [Now Paul is talking about the meals that are eaten together as part of the meetings between the church members, when they leave their homes to meet in a same place and build personal relationships with one another in the fear of the Lord.] 
29 For if someone eats and drinks without discerning the body of the Lord, then he is eating and drinking a condemnation against himself. 
30 This is why there are many among you who are weak and sick, and many have died. 
31 If we judge ourselves in everything that we do, then we will not be judged [that is to say, God will not condemn us]. 
32 And when we are judged, we are punished by the Lord so that we may not be condemned with the world. 
33 So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 
34 If anyone is hungry, then let him eat at home. And thus you will not gather together in order to bring a condemnation against yourselves. When I come to you, I will explain to you how to behave regarding your other concerns.
