1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant. 
2 You know that when were Gentiles [that is to say, when you had not yet believed in the Lord], you were led astray to mute idols, as you were led. 
3 Therefore I tell you that no one who speaks by the Spirit of God says, 'Jesus is accursed'. And no one can sincerely say, 'Jesus is the Lord', except by the Holy Spirit. 
4 Now there are different kinds of gifts [among us who believe in the gospel of Christ], but the same Spirit. 
5 And there are different ways to teach the knowledge of faith in Christ, but the same Lord. 
6 And there are different ways to serve after receiving the knowledge of Christ, but it is the same God who works in all of us to do everything. 
7 For the Spirit manifests itself in a particular way in each person, so that this person can be useful to others. 
8 The Spirit gives to one person the word of wisdom, and the same Spirit gives to another person the word of knowledge. 
9 And the same Spirit gives to another person the gift of having faith, and the same Spirit gives to another person the gift of performing healings. 
10 And another person receives the gift of working miracles, and another person receives the gift of prophecy, and another person receives the gift of discerning what is from the Spirit and what is not, and another person receives the gift of speaking various tongues, and another person receives the ability to interpret those tongues. 
11 All these things are the work of one and the same Spirit. It gives different gifts to different people, according to its own choice. 
12 Just as a body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the body are numerous but they form one body, so it is with Christ. 
13 For we have all been baptized by one Spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slave or free. We have all received the same Spirit which is the fountain of the water of life from which we drink. 
14 So the body is not made up of one member, but of many. 
15 If the foot says, 'I do not belong to the body because I am not the hand', then will this put an end to the fact that it belongs to the body. 
16 And if the ear says, 'I do not belong to the body because I am not the eye', then will this put an end to the fact that it belongs to the body. 
17 If the whole body were an eye, then where would be the hearing. And if the whole body were an ear, then how would one be able to smell something. 
18 But now God has placed each of the members in the body in the way that he has wanted to do it. 
19 If they were all one member, then where would be the body. 
20 And now there are many members, but one body. 
21 And the eye cannot say to the hand, 'I have no need of you'. And the head cannot say to the feet, 'I have no need of you'. 
22 On the contrary, those members that seem to be the weakest parts of the body are indispensable. 
23 And concerning those parts that we think are the least honorable of the body, they receive the most honor in the appearances that we present to others. It is the parts that we want to hide from others that we honor with different means of protection. 
24 Our comely parts do not need it. So God has harmonized the body by giving more honor to the parts that lacked it. 
25 So that there should be no division in the body, but that the members should take care of each other in the same way. 
26 If one member suffers, then all the other members suffer with it. If one member is honored, then all the other members rejoice with it. 
27 Now you are the body of Christ, and each of you is a member of it. 
28 And God has appointed some in the church: firstly the apostles, and secondly the prophets, and thirdly the teachers, then those who work miracles, then those who have gifts of healing, and of helping, and of leading others, and of speaking in tongues. 
29 Are all apostles. Are all prophets. Are all teachers. Do all work miracles. 
30 Do all have gifts of healing. Do all speak in tongues. Do all interpret those tongues. 
31 But earnestly desire the best gifts, and I will show you a more excellent way.
