1 Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge [that is to say, we know that everything is pure]. But the knowledge possessed by a person can make him proud, while love edifies. 
2 If anyone thinks that he knows anything, then he has not yet known as he ought to know. 
3 But if anyone loves God, then that person is known to God. 
4 Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that no idol has any real power in the world, and that there is only one God. 
5 For there are things that are called gods [by the people of the world], those things being in heaven or on earth, according to the ascertainable fact that there are many gods and lords in the thoughts of the disbelievers. 
6 But as for us [who have believed in the gospel], we know that there is only one God who is the Father, from whom are all things and in whom we are, and one Lord who is Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and by whom we are. 
7 But not everyone has this knowledge. And many people continue to imagine that what we the disciples of Jesus call idols are in reality beings with real power in themselves, and those people make various kinds of offerings to those idols, and the consciences of those people are thus defiled by the weakness of their minds, and they eat some of those offerings while having in their thoughts purposes that we know to be sins. 
8 It is not a particular food that brings us closer to God. If we eat it, then we have nothing more. And if we do not eat it, then we have nothing less. 
9 But take heed, lest your freedom become a stumbling block to those who are weak. [That is to say, your freedom to eat anything may make those who have doubts about what they can eat fall into sin.] 
10 For if a person who is weak thinks that you have the knowledge of the true faith, and if that person sees you eating a meal in a temple of idols [that is to say, in a place where some people worship some false gods], then will not his weak conscience lead him to eat things sacrificed to idols [with the aim of obtaining certain spiritual advantages through that kind of food]. 
11 And so the weak brother for whom Christ died will perish through your knowledge. 
12 By sinning against the brothers in this way, by hurting their weak conscience, you sin against Christ. 
13 Therefore if food causes my brother to stumble, then I will never eat that food so as not to cause my brother to stumble.
