1 When king David was very old, they covered him with clothes but it could not warm him. 
2 Therefore his servants said to him: Let a virgin girl be sought for my lord the king, and let her stand before the king and cherish him. And let her sleep in your bosom, so that my lord the king may be warmed. 
3 So they sought for a young and beautiful girl throughout the land of Israel, and they found Abishag the Shunammite and brought her to the king. 
4 And this young girl was very beautiful, and she cherished the king and served him, but the king did not copulate with her. 
5 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself by saying, I will be king. And he got himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him. 
6 Now his father had never reproached him during his childhood by saying, Why are you acting like this. And Adonijah was very handsome in appearance, and his mother bore him next after Absalom was born from his own mother. 
7 And he had a conversation with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest, and they embraced his cause. 
8 But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men of David, they were not with Adonijah. 
9 Then Adonijah killed sheep and oxen and fatlings near the stone of Zoheleth which is near En-rogel. And he invited all his brothers the king's sons, and all the men of Judah the king's servants. 
10 But he did not invite Nathan the prophet, nor Benaiah, nor the mighty men of David, nor Solomon his brother. 
11 Then Nathan said to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon: Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith has become king without our lord David knowing it. 
12 Now therefore come, and I will give you some advice so that you may save your life and the life of your son Solomon. 
13 Go to king David and tell him: O my lord the king, have you not sworn to your handmaid by saying, Assuredly Solomon your son will reign after me and he will sit on my throne. Why then is Adonijah reigning. 
14 Behold while you will be speaking there with the king, I also will come in after you and I will confirm your words. 
15 So Bathsheba went to the king into the private room. And the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was serving the king. 
16 And Bathsheba bowed and did obeisance to the king, and the king said: What is your matter. 
17 And she answered him: My lord, you have sworn to your handmaid by Yahweh your God and said, Assuredly Solomon your son will reign after me, and he will sit on my throne. 
18 And behold Adonijah reigns now and you do not know it, O my lord the king. 
19 And he has killed many oxen and fatlings and sheep. And he has invited all the king's sons, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the army. But he has not invited Solomon your servant. 
20 O my lord the king, all Israel looks towards you to tell them who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. 
21 Otherwise I and my son Solomon will be regarded as offenders when my lord the king will sleep with his fathers. 
22 And lo, while she was still talking with the king, Nathan the prophet arrived. 
23 And they announced it to the king by saying, Behold Nathan the prophet. And Nathan entered the presence of the king, and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. 
24 And Nathan said: O my lord the king, have you said, Adonijah will reign after me and he will sit on my throne. 
25 For he has gone down today and has killed many oxen and fatlings and sheep, and he has invited all the king's sons and the captains of the army and Abiathar the priest. And behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and they have said, God save king Adonijah. 
26 But he has not invited me your servant, nor Zadok the priest, nor Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, nor Solomon your servant. 
27 Was this thing commanded by my lord the king. For then you have not made known to your servant who will sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. 
28 Then king David answered and said, Call to me Bathsheba. And she entered the presence of the king, and she stood before the king. 
29 And the king swore and said: Yahweh is alive, he who has redeemed my soul from all adversity. 
30 As I have sworn to you by Yahweh the God of Israel and said, Assuredly Solomon your son will reign after me and he will sit on my throne in my stead. I will certainly do it today. 
31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground, and did obeisance to the king. And she said: God save my lord king David forever. 
32 And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king. 
33 Then the king said to them: Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule, and carry him down to Gihon. 
34 And there he will be anointed king over Israel by Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet. And you will sound the trumpet and say: God save king Solomon. 
35 Then you will come up after him, and he will come and sit on my throne, and he will reign in my stead. For I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and Judah. 
36 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said: So be it, may Yahweh the God of my lord the king make it happen. 
37 May Yahweh be with Solomon as he has been with my lord the king, and may Yahweh exalt his throne above the throne of my lord King David. 
38 So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, they went down and caused Solomon to ride on the mule of king David, and they brought him to Gihon. 
39 And Zadok the priest took an horn of oil from the holy tent, and he anointed Solomon. And they sounded the trumpet, and all the people said: God save king Solomon. 
40 And all the people came up after Solomon. And the people played with flutes, and they rejoiced with such a great joy that the earth shook because of their sound. 
41 And Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it when they had finished eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, then he said: What means this noise and tumult in the city. 
42 And he was still speaking when Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest arrived. And Adonijah said: Come near, for you are a worthy man and you should be bringing good news. 
43 And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah: Verily our lord king David has made Solomon king. 
44 And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And they have caused him to ride on the king's mule. 
45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon. And they have returned from there with joy, and the city is moved: it is the noise of it that you have heard. 
46 Moreover Solomon has sat on the throne of the kingdom. 
47 And the king's servants have come to bless our lord king David by saying, May your God make the name of Solomon more famous than your name, and exalt his throne above your throne. And then king David worshiped on the bed. 
48 And also the king spoke thus: Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who gave me a successor today on my throne and who allowed me to see it. 
49 Then all the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and they got up and went every man his way. 
50 And Adonijah was afraid of Solomon, and he got up and went, and he seized the horns of the altar. 
51 And one came and told Solomon by saying: Behold Adonijah is afraid of king Solomon, and he has seized the horns of the altar by saying, Let king Solomon swear to me today that he will not kill his servant with the sword. 
52 Then Solomon said: If he shows himself an honest man then there will not fall to the ground one of his hair. But if wickedness is found in him then he will die. 
53 Then king Solomon sent people and they brought Adonijah from the altar, and he came and did obeisance to king Solomon, and Solomon said to him: Go to your house.
