1 And Hiram the king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, because he had heard that they [the people of Israel] had anointed him king in the place of his father, and because Hiram had always loved David. 
2 And Solomon sent the following words to Hiram. 
3 You know that David my father could not build a house for the name of Yahweh his God because of the wars which his enemies made to him on every side, until Yahweh had put them under the soles of his feet. 
4 And now Yahweh my God has given me rest on every side, and there is neither adversary nor evil occurrence. 
5 And behold I intend to build a house for the name of Yahweh my God, according to what Yahweh spoke to David my father by saying: Your son whom I will put in your place on your throne, he will build a house for my name. 
6 Now therefore command your servants to cut cedars trees of Lebanon for me. And my servants will be with yours, and I will pay you the salary of your servants according to all that you will say. For you know that there is no one among us who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians. 
7 And when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, then Hiram rejoiced greatly and said: Blessed be Yahweh today, for he has given to David a wise son to reign over this great people. 
8 And Hiram sent to Solomon by saying: I have heard the message that you have sent to me, and I will do all your desire concerning the cedar trees and fir trees. 
9 My servants will bring them down from Lebanon to the sea, and I will send them by sea in rafts to the place that you will tell me. And I [my servants] will untie them there, and you will take them. What you have to do for this thing is to provide food for my royal household. 
10 So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to all his desire. 
11 And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat to feed his household, and twenty thousand measures of crushed olive oil. This is what Solomon gave Hiram every year. 
12 So Yahweh gave wisdom to Solomon as he had promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and they made a covenant together. 
13 And king Solomon appointed thirty thousand men out of all Israel [for the work with the servants of Hiram]. 
14 And Solomon divided them into three companies of ten thousand men, and each company was sent for a month to Lebanon during each period of three months. Thus during each period of three months, each company was one month in Lebanon and two months at home. And Adoniram was over these companies. 
15 And Solomon had seventy thousand men who bore the burdens, and eighty thousand men who cut the stones in the mountains. 
16 And there were also three thousand and three hundred officers whom Solomon appointed to supervise the workers. 
17 The king ordered to extract large and magnificent hewn stones for the foundations of the house. 
18 And the workers of Solomon, and the workers of Hiram, and the Gebalites, they hewed and prepared timber and stones to build the house [of Yahweh].
