1 And Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 
2 And when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, he was still in Egypt where he had fled from king Solomon in order to dwell there. 
3 Then some people sent and called Jeroboam, and Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came to Rehoboam and spoke to him with the following words. 
4 Your father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore lighten this harsh servitude and the heavy yoke that your father did put on us, and we will serve you. 
5 And he said to them, Go now and come again to me in three days [to get an answer]. And the people departed. 
6 And king Rehoboam consulted the elders who had stood before his father Solomon when he was alive, and he said: What advice do you give me so that I may answer to this people. 
7 And they spoke to him with the following words: If you act today like a servant for this people, then they will also serve you. If you answer them with kind words then they will be your servants forever.
8 But Rehoboam did not want to follow the advice that the elders had given to him, therefore he consulted the young men who had grown up with him and who stood before him. 
9 And he said to them, What do you advise me to answer to this people who has spoken to me by saying: Lighten the yoke that your father did put on us. 
10 And the young men who had grown up with him spoke to him with the following words: You will answer thus to this people who has spoken to you by saying, Your father made our yoke heavy but we want you to lighten it for us. You will answer them thus, My little finger is bigger than my father's kidneys. 
11 And where now my father had placed a grievous yoke on you, I will make it heavier for you. For my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. 
12 Then Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king had ordered by saying: Come again to me in three days. 
13 And the king responded harshly to the people, and he did not want to follow the advice that the elders had given to him. 
14 And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men. And he said: My father made your yoke grievous, and I will make it more grievous. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. 
15 So the king did not listen to the people. For it was a thing directed by Yahweh in order to fulfill the word that Yahweh had spoken by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 
16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not want to listen to them, then the people answered the king by saying: What portion do we have in David. We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Let every man go to his tent, O Israel. And worry about your own house from now on, David. So Israel went to their tents. 
17 And the children of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah were the only ones over whom Rehoboam reigned. 
18 For king Rehoboam sent Adoram [in the territory of those who have said that they no longer wanted him as king]. He sent Adoram there to talk about taxes because Adoram was a tax collector, but all Israel stoned Adoram to death with stones. Then king Rehoboam hastened to get into his chariot and to flee to Jerusalem. 
19 This is how Israel had separated itself from the house of David to this day. 
20 And when the news of Jeroboam's return spread throughout all Israel, then they sent and called him to the assembly, and they made him king over all Israel. The tribe of Judah was the only one [with the tribe of Benjamin who used to act in a way independent from the other tribes since the time when Saul had been chosen among them to be the first king of israel] that followed the house of David. 
21 And when Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, then he gathered all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin to fight against the house of Israel in order to bring it into the kingdom of Rehoboam the son of Solomon. And there were one hundred and eighty thousand chosen men fit for war. 
22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God with the following words. 
23 Speak with the following words to Rehoboam who is the son of Solomon and the king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people who are attached to them. 
24 Thus says Yahweh, Do not go up nor fight against your brothers the children of Israel, but let each of you return to his house because this thing is done by me. Therefore they obeyed the word of Yahweh, and they returned and went their ways according to the word of Yahweh. 
25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the mount Ephraim, and he dwelt there. And he went from there and built Penuel. 
26 And Jeroboam thought in his heart: There is still now a possibility that the kingdom may return to the house of David. 
27 For if this people continue to go to Jerusalem in order to sacrifice in the house of Yahweh, then the heart of this people will return to their previous lord Rehoboam the king of Judah. And then they will kill me and join the kingdom of Rehoboam the king of Judah. 
28 And the king took counsel [from his advisors], and made two calves of gold [he caused to make them]. And then he said to the people: It would be painful for you to continue to go to Jerusalem [to make your offerings in the house of Yahweh]. And behold, here is your gods who brought you out of the land of Egypt, O Israel. 
29 And he placed one of these calves in Bethel, and the other in Dan. 
30 And it was a cause of sin, since the people went to the cities of Dan and Bethel to worship the calves. 
31 And Jeroboam made a house of high places. And he appointed men of all the people as priests, without selecting them for their honesty and although they were not of the sons of Levi. 
32 And Jeroboam created a feast on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, to be the equivalent of the feast that is in Judah [a month earlier, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month as it is commanded by Yahweh], and during this feast he offered on the altar. He did so in Bethel. And he and his priests also offered sacrifices to the calves that he had made, and he placed in Bethel the priest of the high places that he had made. 
33 And on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, the month that he had chosen by his own will, he offered on the altar that he had made at Bethel. So he made a feast for the children of Israel, and he went up himself to the altar to burn incense.
