1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam became ill. 
2 And Jeroboam said to his wife: Arise I pray you, and disguise yourself so that no one knows that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go to Shiloh. For Ahijah the prophet who had told me that I will become king over this people is at that place. 
3 And take with you ten loaves and some cakes and a jar of honey, and go to him, and he will tell you what will happen to the child. 
4 Then Jeroboam's wife did so. And she arose and went to Shiloh, and she entered the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could no longer see, because his eyes had weakened by reason of his old age. 
5 But Yahweh had said to Ahijah: Behold the wife of Jeroboam is coming to inquire of you concerning her son, because he is sick. You will tell her such and such things. For when she arrives, she will pretend to be someone else. 
6 Thus when Ahijah heard the sound of her footsteps as she came at the door, then he said: Enter, you the wife of Jeroboam. Why do you pretend to be someone else. I have been commanded to tell you heavy words. 
7 Go and tell Jeroboam, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: I have exalted you from among the people, and I have made you prince over my people Israel. 
8 For I have taken away the kingdom from the house of David and I have given it to you. But you have not been like my servant David who kept my commandments and who followed me with all his heart, to do only what was right in my eyes. 
9 For you have acted more nastily than all those who were before you. You have gone and made for yourself other gods, the molten images by which you have provoked me and thrown me behind your back. 
10 Therefore behold, I will bring evil on the house of Jeroboam, and I will destroy from Jeroboam [from his spiritual children] every person who pees against the wall [every male], whether slave or free in Israel. For I will sweep the house of Jeroboam as a man sweeps dung, until it is all gone. 
11 Those of the house of Jeroboam who will die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and those who will die in the field will be eaten by the birds of the air. For Yahweh has said it. 
12 As for you, get up and return to your house. And when your feet enters into the city, the child will die. 
13 And all Israel will mourn for him, and they will bury him. For he is the only one of Jeroboam who will be buried, because he is the only one of the house of Jeroboam in whom there is found some good thing toward Yahweh the God of Israel. 
14 Moreover, Yahweh will raise for himself a king over Israel who will destroy the house of Jeroboam on that day. And is that not already happening. 
15 For Yahweh will smite Israel as when a reed is shaken in the water. And he will uproot Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers, and he will scatter them beyond the great river, because they have made idols for themselves and thus have angered Yahweh. 
16 And he will reject Israel because of the sins of Jeroboam which he has committed and caused has Israel to commit. 
17 Then Jeroboam's wife got up and departed, and came at Tirzah. And when she arrived at the threshold of the house, the child died. 
18 And they buried him and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word of Yahweh that he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet. 
19 And the remaining of the acts of Jeroboam, how he made war and how he reigned, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
20 And Jeroboam reigned twenty two years, then he slept with his fathers. And Nadab his son reigned in his stead. 
21 And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem the city which Yahweh had chosen over all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah, and she was an Ammonite. 
22 And Judah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. And they provoked him by their sins, and they provoked his jealousy more than their fathers had ever done. 
23 For they also built for themselves high places, and images, and grove, on every high hill and under every green tree. 
24 And there were also sodomites in the land, and they did according to all the abominations of the nations that Yahweh had driven out before the children of Israel. 
25 And in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. 
26 And he took the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the king's house, and he took away all. And he also took away all the shields of gold that Solomon had made. 
27 And king Rehoboam made in their stead shields of brass, and he handed them over to the care of the chief of the guard who guarded the entrance to the king's house. 
28 And whenever the king went into the house of Yahweh, the guards took these shields and went with him, and brought them back when they returned to the guard room. 
29 The remaining of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
30 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 
31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David. His mother's name was Naamah and she was an Ammonite. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.
