1 And the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of Yahweh, and she came to test him with hard questions. 
2 And she arrived in Jerusalem with a very numerous entourage, and with camels carrying spices, and with gold in large quantities, and with precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart. 
3 And Solomon answered all her questions, and there was nothing that the king could not explain to her. 
4 Then the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built. 
5 And the food of his table, and the dwelling of his servants, and the functions of those who served him, and their apparel, and his utensils in which he drank, and the burnt offerings that he offered in the house of Yahweh. Therefore she was greatly astonished. 
6 And she said to the king: It was is a true report that I have heard in my own land about your great works and your wisdom. 
7 I had not believe the report but now I have come and have seen it with my eyes. And behold, I had not been told the half of it. For you have more wisdom and prosperity than what I had heard. 
8 Your people are fortunate, and your servants who continually stand before you are fortunate because they can hear your wisdom. 
9 Blessed be Yahweh your God who has loved you to set you on the throne of Israel. It is because of the great love of Yahweh for Israel that he has made you king to practice justice by judging his people with fairness. 
10 And she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, and a very large quantity of spices, and precious stones. No one has no longer brought such an abundance of spices in Israel, like those that the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon. 
11 And the ships of Hiram that brought gold from Ophir also brought a large quantity of Almug trees and precious stones from Ophir. 
12 And the king used the Almug trees to make pillars [and their staircases] for the house of Yahweh and for the king's house, and also harps and psalteries for the singers. Such Almug trees have no longer been brought in Israel, neither have they been seen to this day. 
13 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she wanted, and he also gave her gifts of his royal liberality. Then she departed and went to her own country, both she and her servants. 
14 The weight of gold that came to Solomon on that year was six hundred and sixty six talents of gold.
15 And this was in addition to what he collected as a tax from the merchants and from those who sold spices, and from all the kings of Arabia, and from the governors of his country. 
16 And king Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold, and he used six hundred shekels of gold for each of them. 
17 And also three hundred [smaller] shields of beaten gold, with three pounds of gold per shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon. 
18 Then the king made a great throne of ivory, and he overlaid it with pure gold. 
19 And the throne had six steps to get there, and the back of the throne was round at the top, and there were armrests on each side on the place of the seat, and two lions standing near the armrests.
20 And twelve lions stood there on the six steps on each side. There was nothing similar in any other kingdom. 
21 And all the drinking utensils of king Solomon were of gold, and all the utensils of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None of them were made of silver, because the availability of gold had diminished the value of silver during the days of Solomon. 
22 For the king had on the sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram. And the navy of Tarshish came every three years bringing gold, and silver, and ivory, and apes, and peacocks. 
23 So king Solomon was greater than all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. 
24 And people from everywhere wanted to see Solomon in order to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart. 
25 And each of them brought his gift, and among these gifts were utensils of silver, and utensils of gold, and clothing, and armor, and spices, and horses, and mules. It was like this every year. 
26 And Solomon had many chariots and horsemen. He had one thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placed them in the chariots cities and also with the king [himself] in Jerusalem. 
27 And the king made Jerusalem so rich that silver was as common as stones, and cedars as numerous as the wild fig trees that grow abundantly in the plain.
28 And Solomon had horses brought from Egypt, and linen yarn. The traders of the king received the linen yarn at a fixed price. 
29 And a chariot was exchanged in Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty shekels. And these prices were the same for all buyers, among whom were the servants of the kings of the Hittites and of the kings of Syria.
