1 And Solomon also built his own house, and it took thirteen years to be entirely done. 
2 For he also built a house called the forest of Lebanon. Its length was one hundred cubits, and its width was fifty cubits, and its height was thirty cubits. And it was made of four rows of cedar pillars [pillars covered with cedar], and there was a cedar capital [chapiter] at the top of each pillar.
3 And it was covered above with cedar beams that lay on forty five pillars, fifteen in a row [the ceiling was made of cedar]. 
4 And there were three rows of windows, and on each row each window was facing another. 
5 The shape of the sides of each door [which had two leaves] and window was square, and a window was above another window in three rows. 
6 And he made a portico of pillars. Its length was fifty cubits, and its width was thirty cubits. And the portico was in front of such a part of the house, and the other pillars and the thick beam were there.
7 And he made a portico for the throne where he sat to judge, the portico of judgment. And it was covered with cedar, from the floor to the ceiling. 
8 And his dwelling house was built in the same way in a courtyard behind the portico of judgment. And he made also a house like this portico for Pharaoh's daughter whom he had taken to wife. 
9 And all these constructions were made with magnificent stones which were hewn according to the necessary measures. They were sawn with the saw and smoothed on all sides. These stones were used from the foundations to the top layer of the walls, and for the wall around the courtyard. 
10 And the foundations were of magnificent and large stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits. 
11 And above them were magnificent stones hewn according to the necessary measures, and boards of cedar.
12 And the wall all around had three rows of hewn stones and a row of cedar beams, as for the inner courtyard of the house of Yahweh and the courtyard near the portico of the judgment. 
13 Then king Solomon sent and brought a man called Hiram from Tyre. 
14 Hiram was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his dead father was a man of Tyre. And he was a worker of brass, and he was full of wisdom and understanding and knowledge to make all kinds of works with brass. And he came to king Solomon, and he performed all his works. 
15 For he made the two pillars of brass. The height of each pillar was eighteen cubits, and a thread of twelve cubits measured the circumference. 
16 And he made two capitals of molten brass and placed them on the tops of the pillars. The height of each of these capitals was five cubits. 
17 And he made two lattices in the form of networks, and wreaths of chain for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars: seven for the one capital and seven for the other capital. 
18 And he made two rows of pomegranates of brass around one lattice to cover the capital that was on the top of a pillar. And he did the same for the other capital. 
19 In comparison, each of the capital that were on the tops of the pillars of the portico [of the house] had a height of four cubits and the shape of a lily. 
20 And the capitals that were on the top of each of the two special pillars were also surrounded by two hundred pomegranates in two rows adjacent to the belly that was formed by the lattice. 
21 And Hiram set up these two pillars in the portico of the house. He set up the right pillar and called its name Jachin, and he set up the left pillar and called its name Boaz. 
22 And there was work on the tops of the pillars depicting lilies. So was the work of the pillars finished. 
23 And he made a molten container that was called the sea. It was ten cubits in diameter from brim to brim, and a round shape on each part, and five cubits high, and its circumference was the length of a cord of thirty cubits.
24 And there were knops like wild cucumbers under the brim all around, ten per cubit, all around the sea. And the two rows of knops were melted with the container into a single piece. 
25 And the container stood on twelve bulls among which three were looking toward the north, and three were looking toward the west, and three were looking toward south, and three were looking toward the east. And the container stood above them, and all the bulls were looking out of the container, and their hindquarters were inward. 
26 And the thickness of the container was a handbreadth, and its brim was like the work of the brim of a cup with flowers of lilies. It contained two thousand baths. 
27 And he made ten bases of brass. Each had a length of four cubits, and a width of four cubits, and a height of three cubits. 
28 And here is how these bases were made. They were made up of panels set in frames. 
29 And on the panels that were between the ledges were bulls and lions and cherubim. And there was a base above on the ledges, and beneath the lions and bulls were certain additions made of thin work. 
30 And each base had four wheels of brass and axles of brass. And the four corners had undersetters: under the basin were undersetters molten at the side of every addition. 
31 And the mouth of it within the capital and above was one cubit. And this opening was round and made like a base, and it was one cubit and a half wide. And there were also sculptures there, and the panels outside were foursquare and not round. 
32 And the four wheels were under the panels, and the wheel axles were  joined to the base. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and half a cubit. 
33 And the wheels were made like those of a chariot. Their axletrees, and their rims, and their spokes, and their hubs, they were all made of brass. 
34 And there were four undersetters at the four corners of each base, and the undersetters were of the same piece with the base. 
35 And in top of each base was a circle of half a cubit high, and it had its ledges and its panels from the same piece. 
36 And on the plates of its ledges, and on its panels, he engraved cherubim and lions and palm trees according to free spaces. And additions all around. 
37 And he made the ten bases with a same mold. So they had the same shape and the same dimensions. 
38 He made ten basins of brass. Each basin had a capacity of forty baths, and four cubits, and was on one of the ten bases. 
39 And he placed five bases on the right side of the temple, and five bases on the left side of the temple, and he placed the sea on the right side of the temple in the southeast. 
40 And Hiram made bowls, and shovels, and pots for ashes. So Hiram finished all the work that he made for king Solomon, for the house of Yahweh. 
41 He made the two pillars, and the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the two pillars, and the two lattices to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars. 
42 And four hundred pomegranates [of brass] for the two lattices, two rows of pomegranates per lattice to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars. 
43 And the ten bases, and the ten basins on the bases. 
44 And the sea, and twelve bulls under that sea.
45 And pots for ashes, and shovels, and bowls. All these utensils that king Solomon caused Hiram to make for the house of Yahweh were of burnished brass. 
46 The king melted them [he ordered them to be melted] in the plain of the Jordan, in clayey ground between Succoth and Zarethan. 
47 And Solomon did not weigh the brass used for all these utensils because it was in very large quantity. 
48 And Solomon made all the other utensils of the house of Yahweh, and the golden altar also, and the golden tables on which the shewbread was placed. 
49 And the candlesticks of pure gold, five on the right side and five on the left, in front of the most holy place. And the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, all of gold. 
50 And the cups, and the bowls, and the snuffers, and the spoons, and the censers, all of pure gold. And the hinges of gold for the doors of the inner room which is the most holy place, and for the doors of the house of the temple. 
51 So all the work that king Solomon did for the house of Yahweh was finished. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated, the silver and the gold and the vessels, and he put them in the treasures of the house of Yahweh.
