1 And in the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam reigned over Judah. 
2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem, and his mother was Maacah the daughter [granddaughter] of Abishalom [Absalom]. 
3 And he walked in all the sins of his father, the sins that his father had done before him. So his heart was not perfect with Yahweh his God as the heart of David his father. [The simple fact of being king is an inheritance that was transmitted to him because of David and it is in this way that David is his father. But David is not his spiritual father in all meanings of the term because he does not imitate David's behavior.]  
4 Nevertheless Yahweh his God [the one who observes his steps] gave Abijam a lamp in Jerusalem for the sake of David, by establishing the son of Abijam after him to reign in Jerusalem. 
5 Because David had done what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, and he had not turned away from any of his commandments throughout all his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. 
6 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam as long as Rehoboam lived. 
7 And the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. And there was also war between Abijam and Jeroboam. 
8 And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And his son Asa reigned in his stead. 
9 In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa began to reign over Judah. 
10 And he reigned forty one years in Jerusalem, and his mother [the one who took care of him] was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
11 And Asa did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, as David his father had done. 
12 And he banished the Sodomites in the land, and he removed all the idols that his fathers had made. 
13 And Asa also removed the prerogative of his grandmother Maacah, because she had made an idol in a grove. And Asa destroyed her idol, and burned it in the valley of Kidron. 
14 But the high places did not disappear, although the heart of Asa was perfect with Yahweh during all his days. 
15 And Asa also brought in the house of Yahweh the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that he had dedicated himself, namely silver and gold and vessels. 
16 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel throughout their lives. 
17 And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and he built the city of Ramah to prevent the men of Asa king of Judah from going out and entering. 
18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold from the treasures of the house of Yahweh and the treasures of the king's house, and he put them into the hands of his servants whom he sent to Ben-hadad the king of Syria who lived in Damascus. Ben-Hadad was the son of Tabrimmon, and Tabrimmon was the son of Hezion. And Asa also sent the following words to Ben-hadad. 
19 Let there be a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold I am sending you a gift of silver and gold. Now therefore, go and break your covenant with Baasha the king of Israel so that he may depart from me. 
20 And Ben-Hadad listened to king Asa, and he sent the captains of his army against the cities of Israel, and he smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-maacah, and all Chinneroth, and all the land of Naphtali. 
21 And when Baasha heard of it, then he stopped building Ramah and went back to Tirzah. 
22 Then king Asa assembled all Judah, exempting no one. And they took the stones of Ramah with which Baasha was the building the city, and king Asa used them to build Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah. 
23 The remaining of all the acts of Asa, and all his great deeds and all that he did, and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. And he had a disease in his feet when he was old. 
24 And Asa slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead. 
25 And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel for two years. 
26 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he walked in the way of his father and [also] in the sin by which his father caused Israel to sin. 
27 And Baasha the son of Ahijah of the house of Issachar [not the prophet Ahijah] conspired against Nadab, and Baasha killed him at Gibbethon which belonged to the Philistines. For Nadab and all Israel were besieging at Gibbethon. 
28 Baasha killed Nadab in the third year of Asa king of Judah, and Baasha reigned in his stead. 
29 And Baasha killed all the house of Jeroboam when he became king. He left no one of Jeroboam alive [among the males], according to the word of Yahweh that he spoke through his servant Ahijah the Shilonite. 
30 This happened because of the sins that Jeroboam had committed and by which he had caused Israel to sin. For he had angered Yahweh the God of Israel by his provocation. 
31 The remaining of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
32 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel during all their days. 
33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah [not the prophet Ahijah] began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah. And he reigned for twenty four years. 
34 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he walked in the way of Jeroboam and in the sin by which Jeroboam had caused Israel to sin.
