1 David was approaching his death, and he gave his orders to Solomon his son with the following words. 
2 I am going by the way of all the earth. Strengthen yourself therefore, and be a man. 
3 And observe the commandments of Yahweh your God in order to walk in his ways namely to keep his statutes, and his ordinances, and his judgments, and his testimonies, according to what is written in the law of Moses. And thus you will succeed in everything that you do and wherever you turn. 
4 And thus Yahweh will fulfill his word which he has spoken to me by saying: If your sons take heed of their way in order to walk before me in truth, and with all their hearts, and with all their soul, then you will never lack a successor [among them] on the throne of Israel. 
5 Now you know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, namely what he did to the two captains of the army of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner and to Amasa the son of Jether. He killed them, he shed the blood of war in peacetime, and he put the blood of war on his girdle that he had about his waist and on his shoes that he had on his feet. 
6 You will act according to your wisdom, and you will not let his gray hair go down to the grave in peace. 
7 But you will show kindness toward the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and they will be among those who eat at your table. For they acted in the same way toward me when they came to me after I fled from Absalom your brother. 
8 And behold, there is with you Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite of Bahurim. He cursed me with a horrible curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim. But he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by Yahweh and said: I will not kill you with the sword. 
9 But you will not look at him like at a guiltless person. And you are a wise man, and you will know what you will do to him. For you will cause his gray hair to go down to the grave with blood. 
10 And David slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David. 
11 And the days during which David reigned on Israel was forty years. In Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty three years. 
12 Then Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was very strengthened. 
13 And Adonijah the son of Haggith went to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said to him, Do you come peaceably. And he replied, Yes. 
14 And he said moreover, I have a word to tell you. And she said, Speak. 
15 Then he said: You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel looked at me to make me reign. But the kingdom has turned away, and it has become that of my brother because Yahweh gave it to him. 
16 Now therefore I ask you one thing, do not refuse it to me. And she replied: Speak. 
17 And he said: I pray to you, speak to Solomon the king that he gives me Abishag the Shunammite to wife. For he will not refuse it to you. 
18 And Bathsheba said: Well, I will speak for you to the king. 
19 Therefore Bathsheba went to king Solomon, to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king got up to meet her, and he bowed himself to her, and he sat on his throne. And he caused a seat to be set for the king's mother, and she sat at his right hand. 
20 Then she said, I have a small request to make to you, do not refuse it to me. And the king answered her: Speak, my mother, because I will not refuse it to you. 
21 And she said: Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother to wife. 
22 And king Solomon answered and said to his mother: Why do you ask me to give Abishag the Shunammite to Adonijah. In this way you will also be able to ask me to give him the kingdom, because he is my elder brother and he has with him Abiathar the priest and Joab the son of Zeruiah. 
23 Then king Solomon swore by Yahweh and said: May God acts toward me with all his rigor if it is not at the cost of his life that Adonijah has spoken this word. 
24 Now Yahweh is alive, and he has established me and made me sit on the throne of David my father, and he has made me a house according to his promise. Therefore Adonijah will surely die today [for trying a second time to own my dignity]. 
25 And king Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Benaiah smote Adonijah and killed him. 
26 Then the king said to Abiathar the priest: Go to Anathoth in your own fields. For you are worthy of death, but I will not make you die today because you have carried the ark of the Lord Yahweh before David my father, and because you have suffered in all the things that have afflicted my father. 
27 So Solomon removed Abiathar from the priesthood of Yahweh, and thus Yahweh fulfilled the word that he had spoken against the house of Eli in Shiloh. 
28 And the news came to Joab who had followed Adonijah [during the first offense of Adonijah who had tried to proclaim himself king by trickery without seeking the advice of king David], although he had not followed Absalom. And Joab fled to the tent of meeting of Yahweh, and grabbed the horns of the altar. 
29 And it was told king Solomon that Joab had taken refuge into the tent of meeting of Yahweh, and that Joab was near the altar. And Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada by saying, Go and kill him. 
30 And Benaiah came at the tent of meeting of Yahweh and said to Joab: Thus says the king, Come out. And Joab replied, No because I want to die here. And Benaiah brought the answer to the king by saying, Thus said Joab and thus he answered me. 
31 And the king said to Benaiah: Do as he has said, and kill him and bury him. For thus you will remove from me and from my father's house the blood that Joab had shed without cause. 
32 And Yahweh will bring his blood on his own head. For he smote two men more righteous and better than he, and killed them by the sword without informing my father: Abner the son of Ner who was captain of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether who was captain of the army of Judah. 
33 Their blood will therefore return on the head of Joab and on the head of his descendants forever. But [regarding this matter] there will forever be peace from Yahweh for David, and for his descendants, and for his house, and for his throne. 
34 So Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and smote Joab and kill him. And Joab was buried in his own house in the wilderness. 
35 And the king made Benaiah the son Jehoiada the captain of the army at the place of Joab, and he put Zadok the priest at the place of Abiathar. 
36 And the king sent to call Shimei, and the king said to him: Build for yourself a house in Jerusalem, and you will dwell there and you will not depart from there. 
37 And know assuredly that you will be put to death on the day that you will go out and cross the valley of Kidron, and your blood will be on your own head. 
38 And Shimei replied to the king: The thing that you have said is good, and your servant will do what my lord the King have said. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days. 
39 And after three years, it happened that two of the servants of Shimei fled to Achish the son of Maacah the king of Gath. And it was told Shimei by saying: Behold your servants are in Gath. 
40 Then Shimei arose and saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish in order to seek his servants. So Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath. 
41 And Solomon was informed that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and that he had come back from there. 
42 Then the king called Shimei and said to him: Have I not made you swear by Yahweh and have I not attested to you by saying, Know assuredly that you will be put to death on the day that you will go out of the city to walk at whatever place. And you had answered me, The thing that I have heard is good. 
43 Why then have not you kept the oath of Yahweh and the order that I gave you. 
44 And the king said to Shimei: You know inside your heart all the wickedness that you have done to David my father. And now Yahweh brings back your wickedness on your own head. 
45 But King Solomon will be blessed, and David's throne will be strengthened before Yahweh forever. 
46 And the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and smote Shimei, and Shimei died. And the kingdom was strengthened in the hands of Solomon.
