1 And in the four hundred and eighty year after the children of Israel had come out of Egypt, Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh. It was during the fourth year of his reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv which is the second month. 
2 And the house that king Solomon built for Yahweh was sixty cubits in length, and twenty in width, and thirty in height. 
3 And the portico in front of the temple of the house had a length of twenty cubits according to the width of the house, and a width of ten cubits before the house. 
4 And for the house, the king made windows which were larger from the outside and smaller from the inside. 
5 And he built rooms against the wall of the house all around. They surrounded the walls of the house, both the temple and the oracle [that is to say, the holy place and the most holy place]. And these rooms were arranged in three floors. 
6 The nethermost part was five cubits in width, and the middle part was six cubits in width, and the third part was seven cubits in width. For the wall of the temple of the house against which these rooms were built became narrower from the base to the top. For he made shifts in the wall of the house all around on the outside, so that the beams should not be fastened in the walls of the house. 
7 When the house was in building, it was built of stone made ready at the quarry. Thus there was neither hammer nor ax nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building. 
8 The door for the middle floor was on the right side of the house. And they went up by winding stairs into the middle floor, and out of the middle floor into the third floor. 
9 So he built the house and finished it, and he covered the house [inside] with boards of cedar. 
10 And he gave five cubits in height from the floors to each of the rooms that surrounded the whole house, and they were joined to the temple by timber of cedar which rested on the ledge of the wall. 
11 And the following words of Yahweh came to Solomon [by a prophet]. 
12 You are building this house. But know that the promise that I made to David your father will be fulfilled in you only if you walk according to my ordinances, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to follow them. 
13 For it is in this condition that I will dwell among the children of Israel, and that I will not forsake my people of Israel. 
14 And Solomon built the house and finished it. 
15 And Solomon put boards of cedar on the walls inside the house. From the floor of the house to the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood. And he covered the floor of the house with planks of fir. 
16 And Solomon separated a room of a length of twenty cubits from the back of the house for the most holy place of the temple, and put cedar boards there from the floor to the walls of the ceiling. 
17 And the other room of the house was the temple [that is to say, the holy place], and its length was forty cubits. 
18 And the walls of this room were covered with cedar boards carved with knops and with flowers. It was all covered with cedar and no stone could be seen. 
19 And Solomon prepared a place in the middle of the most holy place to put there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh.
20 And the most holy place had a length of twenty cubits, and a width of twenty cubits, and a height of twenty cubits. And Solomon covered it with pure gold, and Solomon also covered the cedar altar with gold. 
21 So Solomon covered the inside of the most holy place with pure gold. And he put chains of gold in front of the most holy place and covered it with [pure] gold. 
22 And he covered the inside of the whole house with gold, until the whole house was made perfect. And he covered the whole altar that was in front of the most holy place with gold. 
23 And he made two cherubim of olive wood in the most holy place, each being ten cubits high. 
24 And each of the two wings of one cherub was five cubits. So there was ten cubits from the end of one of its wings to the end of the other. 
25 And the second cherub also had ten cubits between its wings. Both the cherubim had the same size and the same shape. 
26 And the height of each of the two cherubs was ten cubits. 
27 And Solomon placed the cherubim in the most holy place, and their wings were stretched. And the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall, and their other wings touched one another in the middle of the room. 
28 And Solomon covered the cherubim with gold. 
29 And he carved the inside of all the walls surrounding each of the two rooms of the house with images of cherubim, and of palm trees, and of flowers. 
30 And he covered the floor of the two rooms of the house with gold. 
31 And for the entrance of the most holy place he made two doors of olive wood. The lintel and doorposts took a fifth part of the wall. 
32 The two doors were of olive wood and he engraved them with cherubim, and with palm trees, and with flowers. And he covered the doors with gold, and he put the gold over the cherubim and the palm trees. 
33 And he did the same for the doors of the main room of the temple of the house. The doorposts took a fourth part of the wall. 
34 But the two doors were made of fir wood. And the two leaves of one door could be opened, and the two leaves of the other door could be opened. 
35 And they were engraved with cherubim, and palm trees, and flowers. And he covered the carved work with fine gold. 
36 And he built the wall of the nearest courtyard with three rows of hewn stones and one row of cedar timber. 
37 Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh in the fourth year [of the reign of Solomon], in the month of Ziv. 
38 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul which is the eighth month, he finished the house throughout all its parts and with all its furniture. So he built it for seven years.
