1 After these things, it happened that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel next to the palace of Ahab the king of Samaria. 
2 And Ahab spoke to Naboth by saying: Give me your vineyard so that I may make a garden of herbs of it, because it is very close to my house. And I will give you for it a better vineyard, or I will pay you the value with money if that suits you. 
3 And Naboth said to Ahab: May Yahweh prevent me from giving you the inheritance of my fathers. 
4 Then Ahab came into his house while being sad and worried, because of the word that Naboth of Jezreelite had spoken to him. For he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And Ahab lay down on his bed, and turned his face, and did not want to eat anything. 
5 Then Jezebel his wife came to him and said: Why is your spirit so sad that you do not want to eat. 
6 And he said her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and I said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or I will give you another vineyard for it if you prefer. But Naboth has replied, I will not give you my vineyard. 
7 Then Jezebel his wife said to him: Is it not you the one who governs the kingdom of Israel now. Get up and eat food, and let your heart be merry. For I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
8 And she wrote letters in the name of Ahab, and sealed them with the seal of Ahab, and sent them to the elders and to the nobles who were in Jezreel. 
9 And here is what she wrote in these letters: Proclaim a fasting, and assemble the people, and place Naboth among the chiefs of the people. 
10 And place two wicked men in front of him, and let them be witnesses against him by saying, You have cursed God and the king. And then you will carry him out [of the city] and stone him to death. 
11 And the men of the city of Naboth, the elders and the governors who dwelt in the city, they did as Jezebel had said to them according to what was written in the letters that she had sent to them. 
12 So they proclaimed a fasting, and they assembled the people, and they placed Naboth among the chiefs of the people. 
13 And the two wicked men came and sat in front of him, and these wicked men bore witness against Naboth in the presence of the people by saying, Naboth has cursed God and the king. So they carried him away out of the city, and they stoned him to death with stones. 
14 Then they sent to Jezebel by saying: Naboth was stoned to death. 
15 And when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead, then Jezebel said to Ahab: Arise and take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite who had refused to give it to you in exchange for money. For Naboth is no longer alive, but he is dead.
16 And when Ahab heard that Naboth had died, he got up to descend to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it. 
17 And the word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite with the following words. 
18 Arise and go down to meet Ahab king of Israel who reigns in Samaria. Lo, he is in the vineyard of Naboth where he has gone down to take possession of it. 
19 Therefore you will tell him, Thus speaks Yahweh, 'Are you not a murderer and a robber'. And you will speak to him by saying, Thus says Yahweh: In the place where dogs have licked the blood of Naboth, there also dogs will lick your blood. 
20 And Ahab said to Elijah: You have found me, O my enemy. And Elijah replied: I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. 
21 Behold I will bring evil on you, and I will sweep your legacy, and I will destroy from Ahab [from his spiritual children] every person who pees against the wall [every male], whether slave or free in Israel. 
22 And I will make your house similar to the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and similar to the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, because of the provocation by which you have angered me and have caused Israel to sin. 
23 And Yahweh speaks also of Jezebel by saying: Dogs will eat Jezebel near the wall of Jezreel.
24 Those of the house of Ahab who will die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and those who will die in the field will be eaten by the birds of the air. 
25 Now there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. For Jezebel his wife incited him to act thus. 
26 He acted in the most abominable way. And he followed idols according to all that the Amorites did, a people whom Yahweh had driven away before the children of Israel. 
27 Now when Ahab heard those words, the tore his clothes and did put sackcloth on his body, and did fasting. And he slept in sackcloth, and he walked slowly. 
28 Then the word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite with the following words. 
29 Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me. I will not bring the evil during his life, because he has humbled himself before me. But it will be during the life of his son that I will bring evil on his house.
