1 And Ahab told Jezebel everything that Elijah had done, and how Elijah had killed all the prophets with the sword. 
2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah by saying: May God acts toward me with all his rigor if tomorrow at this hour I have not make of your life what you have done of the life of each of them. 
3 And when Elijah heard this thing, then he got up and went away to save his life. And he came to Beersheba which is in Judah, and he left his servant there. 
4 But he went a day's journey into the wilderness, and he sat down under a juniper tree, and he asked to die by saying: It is enough. Take my soul now, O Yahweh, for I am not better than my fathers. 
5 And he lay down and slept under the juniper tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him: Get up and eat. 
6 And he looked around and behold, there was a cake on heated stones and a cruse of water at his head. And he ate and drank, and lay down and slept. 
7 And the angel of Yahweh came a second time and touched him, and said: Get up and eat, because you have a long journey to do. 
8 And he got up, and he ate and drank. And with the strength given to him by that food, he walked forty days and forty nights and came at the mountain of God in Horeb. 
9 And there he entered a cave, and he spent the night there. And behold, Yahweh said to him: What are you doing here, Elijah. 
10 And Elijah replied: I have shown my zeal for Yahweh the God of armies because the children of Israel have abandoned your covenant, and they have overthrown your altars, and they have killed your prophets with the sword. And I am the only one of your prophets who are still alive in their eyes, and they [Jezebel and her servants] seek to take my life. 
11 And he answered Elijah, Go outside and stand on the mountain before Yahweh. And behold, Yahweh went around. And there was a great and violent wind that tore the mountains and broke the rocks before Yahweh, but Yahweh was not in the wind. And after the wind there was an earthquake, but Yahweh was not in the earthquake. 
12 And after the earthquake there was a fire, but Yahweh was not in the fire. And after the fire there was a calm and gentle whisper. 
13 And when Elijah heard it, then he covered his face with his mantle and he went out, and he stood at the entrance of the cave. And behold, a voice made him hear these words: What are you doing here, Elijah. 
14 And Elijah replied: I have shown my zeal for Yahweh the God of armies because the children of Israel have abandoned your covenant, and they have overthrown your altars, and they have killed your prophets with the sword. And I am the only one of your prophets who are still alive in their eyes, and they [Jezebel and her servants] seek to take my life. 
15 And Yahweh said to him: Go and walk in the wilderness to Damascus. And when you have arrived, you will anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. 
16 And you will also anoint Jehu the son of Nimshi to be king over Israel. And you will anoint Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah to be prophet in your stead. 
17 And it will happen that the one who will escape from the sword of Hazael will be killed by Jehu, and the one who will escape from the sword of Jehu will be killed by Elisha. 
18 But I will spare seven thousand men in Israel, all those who have not worshiped Baal and whose mouth has not kissed him. 
19 And Elijah departed from there. And Elijah found Elisha the son of Shaphat who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he was behind the twelfth. And Elijah approached him, and Elijah threw his mantle on Elisha. 
20 And Elisha left the oxen, and he ran after Elijah and said, I pray you to let me go to kiss my father and mother, and then I will follow you. And Elijah answered him: You can do that, for what have I done to you. 
21 And when Elisha returned from following Elijah, then he took a pair of oxen and killed them, and he cooked their flesh by using the yoke as firewood, and he gave it to the people and they did eat. Then he arose and followed Elijah, and he was at the service of Elijah.
