1 And after many days, in the third year, the word of Yahweh came to Elijah by saying: Go and show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the land. 
2 And Elijah went to show himself to Ahab, and the famine was severe in Samaria at time. 
3 And Ahab had sent for Obadiah who was the steward of his household. Now Obadiah feared Yahweh greatly. 
4 And when Jezebel had destroyed the prophets of Yahweh, Obadiah had taken one hundred prophets and had hidden them in two caves, fifty per cave, and he brought them bread and water to feed them. 
5 So Ahab said to Obadiah: Go into the land to all the springs of water, and to all the brooks. Perhaps we will find grass to keep the horses and the mules alive, and thus we will not need to kill them. 
6 And they divided the land between them to walk throughout it. And Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself. 
7 And when Obadiah was in the way, behold Elijah met him. And Obadiah recognized him, and he fell on his face and said: Is it you, my lord Elijah. 
8 And Elijah answered him: It is I. Go now and tell your lord the king, Elijah is here. 
9 And Obadiah said: What sin have I committed, so that you want to deliver your servant into the hand of Ahab who will kill me. 
10 As Yahweh is alive, there is no nation or kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you. And when they said that you were not there, then he made the kingdom and the nation swear that they had not found you. 
11 And now you say: Go and tell your lord, Behold Elijah is here. 
12 And when I will have gone, then the spirit of Yahweh will carry you into a place that I do not know. So I will go and tell Ahab, but he will not find you and he will kill me. However your servant has the fear of Yahweh since the time of his youth. 
13 Has not my lord been informed of what I have done when Jezebel killed the prophets of Yahweh. For I hid one hundred prophets of Yahweh in two caves, fifty per cave, and I fed them with bread and water. 
14 And now you say, Go and tell your lord that Elijah is here. And the king will kill me. 
15 And Elijah said: As Yahweh the God of armies is alive, the one before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to Ahab today. 
16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
17 And when Ahab saw Elijah, he said to him: Are you the one who troubles Israel. 
18 And Elijah answered: I have not troubled Israel, but you and your father's house have forsaken the commandments of Yahweh and have gone after the Baals. 
19 Now therefore, send and gather all Israel to me at the mount Carmel, and also the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of the groves who eat at Jezebel's table. 
20 So Ahab sent messengers to all the children of Israel, and he gathered the prophets together at the mount Carmel. 
21 And Elijah came to all the people and said: How long will you serve more that one God. If Yahweh is God then follow him, but if you choose Baal then follow him. And people did not answer him a word. 
22 Then Elijah said to the people: I am the only prophet of Yahweh here, and there are four hundred and fifty prophets of Baals. 
23 Give us two bullocks now. And let them choose one of the bullocks for themselves and cut it in pieces, and put it on the wood, and put no fire under it. And I will prepare the other bullock, and put it on the wood, and put no fire under it. 
24 And you will call on the name of your God, and I will call on the name of Yahweh. And the God who will answer with fire will be recognize as God. And all the people answered by saying: You have well spoken. 
25 And Elijah said to the prophets of Baal: Choose for yourselves one of the bullocks, and prepare it first because you are the most numerous. Then you will call on the name of your gods, but you will not put a fire under your bullock. 
26 So they took one of the two bullocks which had been given to them, and they prepared it. And they called on the name of Baal from morning until noon by saying, O Baal answer us. But there was neither voice nor any answer. And they jumped in front of the altar that was made. 
27 And at noon Elijah laughed at them and said: Scream more strongly. For he may be busy because he is God. Either he is thinking about something else, or he is traveling. Otherwise he is sleeping and must be awakened. 
28 And they screamed louder, and they did cut themselves according to their custom with swords and spears, until the blood gushed out of them. 
29 And the noon was past, and they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice [which is prescribed by the law of Moses]. But there was neither voice nor any answer, there was no sign of attention from their God. 
30 And Elijah said to all the people, Come near to me. And all the people approached him. And Elijah restored the altar of Yahweh that had been overthrown at that place [at an ancient time]. 
31 And Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of tribes of the sons of Jacob to whom Yahweh had said, Israel will be your name. 
32 And Elijah utilized these stones to build an altar in the name of Yahweh. And he made around the altar a ditch of the capacity of two measures of seed. 
33 And he put the wood in order. And he did cut the bullock in pieces and placed it on the wood, and he said: Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the what will be my burnt offering and on the wood. 
34 And he said, Do it a second time. And they did it a second time. And he said, Do it a third time. And they did it a third time. 
35 And the water flowed around the altar, and the ditch also was filled with water. 
36 And at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came near and said: O Yahweh the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Israel. Let it be known today that you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things by your command. 
37 Answer me, O Yahweh, answer me. And then this people will know that it is you who is God, O Yahweh. And they will know that you are the one who is bringing them back to you. 
38 Then the fire of Yahweh fell and consumed the burnt offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and it absorbed the water that was in the ditch. 
39 And when all the people saw this thing, then they fell on their faces and said: It is Yahweh who is God, it is Yahweh who is God. 
40 And Elijah said them, Seize the prophets of Baal and let no one of them escape. And the people seized the prophets of Baal, and Elijah brought them to the brook of Kishon and killed them there. 
41 And Elijah said to Ahab: Get up and eat and drink, because there is a sound that announces the rain. 
42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. But Elijah went up to the top of Carmel, and he bowed himself down to the ground and put his face between his knees. 
43 And he said to his servant, Go up now and look toward the side of the sea. And his servant went up and looked, and came back and said, There is nothing. And Elijah said, Go again. This happened seven times. 
44 And his servant said at the seventh time, Behold there arise a little cloud out of the sea and it is as small as the palm of a man's hand. And Elijah said: Go and say to Ahab: Prepare your chariot and go home now, so that the rain does not stop you. 
45 And after a short time the sky was covered with dark clouds and the wind began to blow, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode in his chariot and went back to Jezreel. 
46 And the hand of Yahweh was on Elijah, and he girded up his waist and ran ahead of Ahab until he came to Jezreel.
