1 And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in Yahweh, for my strength has been lifted up by Yahweh. My mouth extends to my enemies, because I rejoice in your help. 
2 There is no one holy like Yahweh. Yes, there is none other than you, and there is no rock like our God. 
3 Stop speaking presumptuously, do not let arrogance come out of your mouth. For Yahweh is a God of knowledge, and by him all actions are weighed. 
4 The bows of the mighty men are broken, and the weak are girded with strength. 
5 Those who were previously full will sell themselves for bread, and those who were previously hungry will rest. Even the barren gives birth seven times, and she who had many children is withered. 
6 Yahweh kills and gives life. He brings down to the grave and he lifts up. 
7 Yahweh impoverishes and enriches, he humbles and exalts. 
8 He raises the poor from the dust and he lifts up the needy from the dunghills, to set them among the princes and to make them inherit the seat of glory. For the pillars of the earth belong to Yahweh, and he has set the world on them. 
9 He will keep the steps of his beloved ones, but the wicked will be put to silence in darkness. For no man will triumph by his own force. 
10 The enemies of Yahweh will be destroyed, from heaven he will thunder on them. Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth. He will give power to his king and exalt the strength of his anointed. 
11 And Elkanah went to his house in Ramah, and the child served Yahweh before Eli the priest. 
12 Now the sons of Eli were perverse men. They knew not Yahweh. 
13 And the custom of these priests towards the people was as follows. When someone offered a sacrifice, then the priest's servant came with a flesh-hook of three teeth in his hand while the flesh was being cooked. 
14 And he plucked into the boiler, or into the cauldron, or in the pan, or in the pot. And whatever the fork brought, the priest took it for himself. This is what they did with all the people of Israel who came there at Shiloh. 
15 Even before they had burned the fat, the priest's servant used to come and said to the one who was offering the sacrifice: Give me flesh to roast for the priest, for he will not receive cooked flesh from you but only raw flesh. 
16 And if anyone said to him: When they burn the fat according to custom, then you will take whatever your heart desires. Then the servant would have replied: No, but you will give it now or I will take it by force. 
17 Therefore the sin of these young men was very great before Yahweh, because they despised the offerings of Yahweh. 
18 And Samuel was a young child who used to serve before Yahweh while being girded with a linen ephod. 
19 And his mother made him a small coat that she brought to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice. 
20 And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife by saying: May Yahweh give you children from this woman to replace the one whom she gave to Yahweh. And they went to their place. 
21 And Yahweh visited Hannah, and she continued to conceive, and she had three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel grew before Yahweh. 
22 And Eli was very old and he heard how his sons acted towards all Israel, and also how they copulate with the women who assembled at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
23 And he said to them: Why do you do such things. For I hear of your evil deeds by all this people. 
24 Do not do more, my sons, for it is not a good report that I hear. You cause the people of Yahweh to sin. 
25 If a man sins against another man then God will judge the case. But if a man sins against Yahweh then who will intercede for him. Nevertheless they did not obey to the voice of their father, because Yahweh wanted to kill them. 
26 And the young Samuel continued to grow, and he was pleasing to Yahweh and to men. 
27 Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, Thus says Yahweh: Have I not revealed myself to your father's house, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house. 
28 And I chose him from all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to make offerings on my altar and to burn the incense and to wear an ephod before me. And I gave to your father's house all the offerings made by fire from the children of Israel. 
29 Why do you despise my sacrifices and my offerings which I commanded to be made in my dwelling [since you have not acted firmly against your sons]. Why have you honored your children more than me, so that you fatten yourselves with the firstfruits of all the offerings of my people Israel. 
30 Therefore Yahweh the God of Israel declares: I had said that your house and your father's house should walk before me forever. But now Yahweh says, It will not be so. For I will honor the one who honors me, but those who despise me will be despised. 
31 Behold the days come twhen I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there will be no more old man in your house. 
32 And you will be afflicted in my dwelling, while Israel will receive all the good things of God. And there will never be an old man in your house again. 
33 And I will not destroy all your people near my altar, in order to consume your eyes and grieve your soul. But all those of your house will die in the flower of their age. 
34 And you will have a sign by what will happen to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas. For they will both die on the same day. 
35 And I will raise for myself a faithful priest who will act according to my heart and according to my desires. And I will build him a stable house, and he will walk before my anointed forever. 
36 And whoever is left of your house will come and bow down to him for a coin of silver and a morsel of bread, and will say: Appoint me, I pray you, to one of the functions of the priesthood so that I may have a morsel of bread to eat.
