1 And Yahweh said to Samuel, When will you stop weeping for Saul. For I have rejected him so that he may no longer be king over Israel. Now therefore, fill your horn with oil and go. And I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have chosen the new king from among his sons. 
2 And Samuel said: How can I go. For if Saul hear about it then he will kill me. And Yahweh answered: You will take a heifer with you and you will say, I have come to offer a sacrifice to Yahweh. 
3 And you will invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you must do, and you will anoint for me the one whom I will show you. 
4 And Samuel did as Yahweh commanded him, and he went to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city were astonished at his arrival, and they said: Does your coming announce anything happy. 
5 And he replied: Yes, I have come to offer a sacrifice to Yahweh. Sanctify yourself, and come with me to the sacrifice. So he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and invited them to the sacrifice. 
6 And when they have come, then Samuel looked at Eliab and said: Surely this is the anointed of Yahweh. 
7 But Yahweh said to Samuel: Look not at his countenance nor at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For Yahweh does not see what man sees. For man looks at the external appearance, but Yahweh looks at the heart. 
8 Then Jesse called Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And Samuel said: Yahweh did not choose this one either. 
9 Then Jesse called Shammah. And Samuel said: Yahweh did not choose this one either. 
10 And Jesse made seven of his sons to come before Samuel, and Samuel said to Jesse: Yahweh has not chosen any of them. 
11 Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are these all your sons. And Jesse answered, There remains the youngest who is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse: Send for him, for we will not sit down until he comes here. 
12 And Jesse sent for him. Now he was ruddy, and of a good appearance, and with a comely visage. And Yahweh said to Samuel: Arise and anoint him, for this is he. 
13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the spirit of Yahweh came on David from that day forward. Then Samuel got up and went to Ramah. 
14 Now the spirit of Yahweh had departed from Saul, and after that he was vexed by an evil spirit from Yahweh. 
15 And Saul's servants said to him: Behold now, an evil spirit from God is agitating you. 
16 Let our lord therefore command your servants who are before you to look for a man who is a skilful player on the harp. And when the evil spirit of God come on you, then he will play with his hand and you will be relaxed. 
17 And Saul said to his servants: Find for me, I pray you, a man who can play well. And bring him to me. 
18 Then one of his servants spoke and said: Behold I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who knows how to play. He is also a strong and valiant man, and a warrior, and careful in speech, and a comely person, and Yahweh is with him. 
19 Therefore with the approval of Saul, his servant sent messengers to the house of Jesse by saying: The king asks for David your son who is with the sheep. 
20 And Jesse took a donkey which he loaded with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid of the goats. And he sent these things to the king by the hand of David his son. 
21 And David came to Saul and stood before him. And Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armorbearer. 
22 And Saul sent to Jesse by saying: Let David stay in my service, for he has found favor in my sight. 
23 And whenever the evil spirit of God came on Saul, David took the harp and played with his hand, and Saul then breathed more easily and was relieved because the evil spirit departed from him.
