1 Meanwhile the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from the Philistines, and many of the men of Israel fell dead on the mount Gilboa. 
2 And the Philistines pursued Saul and his sons with great difficulty and determination. And the Philistines killed Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul. 
3 And then the effort of the battle was on Saul, and the archers did hit him and seriously injured him. 
4 Then Saul said to his armorbearer: Draw your sword and pierce me with it, lest these uncircumcised come to pierce me and to mock me. But his armorbearer did not want to do it, for he was filled with fear. Therefore Saul took his sword and fell on it. 
5 And when his armorbearer saw it and thought that Saul was already dead, then he also threw himself on his sword and died near Saul. 
6 Thus Saul and his three sons perished on that same day, with his armorbearer and all his men [who usually stayed close to him to protect him]. 
7 And the people of Israel who dwelt on the other side of the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled, and knew that Saul and his sons were dead. Therefore they left their cities and fled, and the Philistines came and dwelt there. 
8 And on the next day when the Philistines came to strip the dead, then they found Saul and his three sons fallen on the mount Gilboa. 
9 And they cut off the head of Saul and took all the pieces of his armor. And they caused it to travel throughout the land of the Philistines, in the houses of their idols and among the people. 
10 And they did put Saul's armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and they tied his body on the walls of Beth-shan. 
11 And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul. 
12 Then all the valiant men arose and went during all the night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and burned them there. 
13 And they took their bones and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and they fasted seven days [they ate nothing during each of theses day but only at night before sleeping].
