1 And when David had finished speaking to Saul, then the soul of Jonathan was attached to the soul of David and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. 
2 And Saul took David on that day [to be permanently at his side without any period of leave], and would not let him return to his father's house. 
3 Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved David as his own soul. 
4 And Jonathan took off the cloak which he was wearing and gave it to David. And he also gave his apparel to David, and his sword, and his bow, and his belt. 
5 David went wherever Saul sent him and behaved himself wisely. Therefore Saul made him head of the men of war, and he pleased all the people and also Saul's servants.
6 And at one of the returns of David from a battle against the Philistines when David had killed many of them [who were at war with Israel], the women went out from all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul. They had tambourines, and music instruments, and joy instruments. 
7 And the women sang one to another as they played, and they said: Saul killed his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
8 And Saul was very angry because these words displeased him, and he said: They awarded ten thousand [thousands] to David, and to me they awarded only a thousand [thousands]. And what more can he have as a reward if not the kingdom [and thus take my place].
9 And Saul hated David from that day and forward. 
10 And the next day, the evil spirit of God came on Saul and he prophesied in the midst of the house. Therefore David played the harp with his hand as at other times, but there was a spear in Saul's hand. 
11 For Saul took the spear by saying within himself: I will nail David to the wall. But David turned away from him twice [without knowing that Saul wanted to kill him, for he thought that Saul was agitated by the evil spirit because of which he personally knew the king]. 
12 And Saul was afraid of David because Yahweh was with David but was not with him.
13 Therefore Saul sent David away and made him captain of a thousand. And David went out and returned before the people at every battle against the enemies of Israel.
14 And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, for Yahweh was with him.
15 And when Saul saw that David was very wise, then he was afraid of David. 
16 But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and returned before them. 
17 Then Saul said to David: Behold I will give you Merab my eldest daughter to wife [for she becomes old enough to be someone's wife and I previously made a promise about who will marry her]. You just have to continue to serve me valiantly and fight the battles of Yahweh. For Saul thought: I will not kill him with my own hands, but may the hands of the Philistines kill him in battle. 
18 And David answered Saul: Who am I, and what is my life. What is my father's family in Israel, that I may become the son in law of the king of Israel chosen by Yahweh the almighty God [I do not think that I have done enough to deserve the fulfillment of the king's promise].
19 But at the time when Merab the daughter of Saul should have been given to David, it happened that she was given as wife to Adriel the Meholathite [without David rejecting her]. 
20 However, Michal the daughter of Saul loved David. And Saul was informed of this, and it suited him. 
21 For Saul said to himself, I will give her to David, and she will be a snare that will cause him to be killed by the hands of the Philistines. Therefore Saul said to David, Today you can prepare your mind a second time about the fact that you will become my son in law. 
22 For Saul commanded his servants by saying: Speak secretly to David and say, Behold the king delights in you, and all his servants love you. Now therefore, be the king's son in law. 
23 And Saul's servants spoke these words in David's ears. And David said: Do you think that it should be easy to deserve to become the son in law of the king of the people of the almighty God. For I am not rich [only through the possessions given by the hand of the king] and I do not feel worthy of such an honor.
24 And the servants of Saul reported to him by saying, David has answered with such words. 
25 And Saul said, You will speak thus to David: The king does not want a man to possess by himself great wealth in order to fully deserve his daughter. [And since your victory over the Philistine Goliath is a small thing in your own eyes because you have no consideration for him, then know that] the king will be completely satisfied if you avenge him of his enemies by offering him a hundred prepuces of Philistines. For Saul thought in himself that David would be killed by the Philistines if his mind was occupied with wanting to cause such a large number of victims in the battle [for the Philistines were at war with Israel]. For Saul knew that the spirit of Yahweh must forsake David if David's behavior was motivated by reasons that were not honorable, but Saul did not foresee that David would be more concerned about punishing the enemies of Yahweh than about killing many people to be able to marry the daughter of the anointed of Yahweh. 
26 And Saul's servants told these words to David, and it pleased David to be the king's son in law. And David acted before the deadline set by the king. 
27 For David arose with his men, and they went, and [David himself] killed two hundred men of the Philistines in the battle. And David brought their foreskins, and gave them all to the king in order to become the king's son in law. Therefore Saul gave David his daughter Michal to wife.
28 And Saul saw and understood that Yahweh was with David. And his daughter Michal loved David. 
29 And Saul was more and more afraid of David, and Saul was continually an enemy of David. 
30 And whenever the princes of the Philistines went out with their armies to war against Israel, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul. And the name of David was very famous.
