1 Then Samuel died, and all Israel gathered together and mourned him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
2 There was a very rich man in Maon whose possessions were in Carmel. He had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. 
3 The name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. Abigail was a woman of good understanding and of a beautiful countenance, but Nabal was churlish and evil in his actions. Nabal was of the family of Caleb. 
4 David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. 
5 Therefore David sent ten young men to whom he said: Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal and greet him in my name. 
6 And you will greet him this way: You and your house, and everything you own, we wish you to be at peace in wealth and prosperity. 
7 Behold I have heard that you are working now with your shearers. Know that your shepherds have been with us, and that we did not offend them, and that nothing was taken from them during the whole time they were in Carmel. 
8 Ask your servants, and they will tell you. Therefore may these young men find favor in your eyes, since we come in a day of joy. I pray you to give your servants and your son David whatever your heart desires. 
9 And when David's young men arrived, they told Nabal all these words in the name of David and kept silent. 
10 Then Nabal answered David's servants: Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse. Today there are many servants escaping from their masters. 
11 Will I take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of those of my cattle that I have killed to feed my shearers, and give them to men whom I do not know. 
12 And the servants of David turned and came back, and said all those words to David. 
13 Then David said to his men, Let every one of you gird his sword. And they each girded his sword, and David also girded his sword. And about four hundred men went with David while two hundred remained near the luggage. 
14 But one of Nabal's servants had gone and said to Abigail the wife of Nabal: Behold David sent messengers from the wilderness to salute our master, but he rebuked them. 
15 Nabal has done this despite the fact that these men have been very good to us. For they have done us no offense, and nothing has been taken from us during the whole time we were with them when we were in the fields. 
16 They served as a wall for us at night and at day, all the time we were with them keeping the flocks. 
17 Now therefore know and consider what you have to do, for disaster will surely come on our master and on all his house. And he is so wicked that no one dares to talk to him. 
18 Then Abigail made haste and took [by her servants] two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep that they quickly cooked, and five measures of roasted grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and they put them on donkeys. 
19 Then she said to her servants, Go before me and I will follow you. But she said nothing to Nabal her husband [she did not send to inform him]. 
20 And when she was riding her donkey and descending the mountain by a secret place [with her servants who were right before her], behold David and his men came down toward her and she met them. 
21 For David had said: I kept all that this man had in the wilderness [at the request of his servants], and nothing was lost of all that belonged to him. But it was in vain that I did it because he has repaid me evil for good [at a time when I needed him]. 
22 May God acts toward me with all his rigor if I do not kill before the dawn of the day, of all those who belong to Nabal, every person who pees against the wall [every male]. 
23 And when Abigail saw David, then she hastened and alighted from her donkey, and fell on her face before David, and bowed herself to the ground. 
24 Then she threw herself at his feet and said: Oh my lord, the guilt is mine too. I pray you to let your handmaid speak in your ears, and to hear the words of your handmaid.
25 Let my lord not look at Nabal, this wicked man. For such is his name, such he is. Nabal is his name, and there is madness in him. And I your handmaid have not seen the young men whom you sent. 
26 Now therefore my lord, as Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, it is Yahweh who is keeping you from shedding blood because man is not saved by his own hand [but by the spirit of Yahweh]. May your enemies and those who wish a misfortune on my lord be like Nabal. 
27 And now, accept this gift that your handmaid has brought to my lord, and let it be distributed to the young men who follow my lord. 
28 I pray you to forgive the iniquity of your handmaid [which is attributed to her because of her link with Nabal]. For Yahweh will make my lord a stable house since my lord fights the battles of Yahweh, and wickedness will not be found in you all your life. 
29 And if someone arises to persecute you and to take your life, then the soul of my lord will be bonded in the bundle of life with Yahweh your God, who will throw the souls of your enemies as from the hollow of the slingshot. 
30 And when Yahweh will have done to my lord all the good things that he has spoken concerning you and will have made you ruler over Israel. [Now the prophet Samuel, who is already dead when Abigail meets David, is the one who announced this information. But the time of this announcement has not been specified in this book.] 
31 Then my lord will have neither remorse nor suffering from heart for having shed blood without cause [because these people did not directly offend you] or for having avenged himself [without acting out of necessity for the well-being of others]. And when Yahweh will have done good to my lord, then remember your handmaid. 
32 Then David said to Abigail: Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who sent you today to meet me. 
33 And blessed be your counsel, and blessed be you, for you have prevented me on this day from shedding blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand. 
34 For indeed, as Yahweh the God of Israel who has prevented me from hurting you is alive, if you had not hurried to come to meet me, surely there would had not been left to Nabal at the dawn of the day so much as one of those who pee against the wall [one male]. 
35 Then David received of the hand of Abigail what she had brought to him [he authorized his men to take it], and he said to her: Go up in peace to your house. Behold I have heard your voice and I have granted your request. 
36 Then Abigail came to Nabal and behold, he was making a feast in his house like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. Therefore she told him nothing, small or large, until morning light. 
37 And in the morning when the effects of the wine in Nabal's body were exhausted, his wife told him what had happened [how she had brought gifts to David]. And after Nabal had heard it, his heart was struck within him, and he became like a stone. 
38 And about ten days later, Yahweh smote Nabal and Nabal died. 
39 And when David heard that Nabal was dead, then he said: Blessed be Yahweh who defended the cause of the shame that was brought on me by Nabal, and who prevented his servant from doing evil. For Yahweh brought back Nabal's wickedness on his head. And David sent to Abigail to ask her to become his wife. 
40 And when the servants of David had come to Abigail in Carmel, they spoke to her by saying: David sent us to you, in order to take you to become his wife. 
41 And she got up, and bowed herself on her face to the ground, and said: Behold your handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
42 Abigail rose in haste. And she went up on a donkey, and her five maidservant followed her, and she followed David’s messengers, and she became David’s wife. 
43 David had also taken Ahinoam of Jezreel, and so both of them were his wives. 
44 And Saul had taken his daughter Michal the wife of David, and given her to Palti the son of Laish who was from the town named Gallim.
