1 But when David and his men had come to Ziklag on the third day, they saw that the Amalekites had attacked the south and Ziklag, and had destroyed Ziklag and burned it with fire. 
2 And the Amalekites had taken captive the women and all those who were there, young and old. They had not killed anyone [there was no corpse], but they had taken them away and had gone their way. 
3 So David and his men came to the city and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captive. 
4 Then David and the men who were with him lifted up their voices and wept, until they had no more strength to weep. 
5 The two wives of David had been taken away, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail of Carmel who had been the wife of Nabal. 
6 And David was greatly distressed, for the people intended to stone him. For the hearts of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. But David comforted himself in Yahweh his God. 
7 And David said to Abiathar the priest who was the son of Ahimelech, 'I pray you, bring me the ephod'. And Abiathar brought the ephod to David. 
8 Then David inquired of Yahweh by saying, 'Should I pursue this company'. Will I overtake them. And Yahweh answered him, 'Pursue, for you will surely overtake them and retrieve all'. 
9 So David went, him and the six hundred men who were with him. And they came to the river Besor, and a part of them stopped there. 
10 And David continued the pursuit with four hundred men. For two hundred men stayed behind, because they were too weary to go over the river Besor. 
11 And they found in the fields an Egyptian whom they brought to David. And they gave him bread which he ate, and they gave him water which he drank. 
12 And they gave him also a piece of a cake of figs and two bunches of grapes. And when he had eaten, then his spirit returned and he was refreshed. For he had not eaten food or drunk water during three days and three nights. 
13 Then David said to him: Who do you belong to, and where are you from. And he answered: I am an Egyptian boy and a servant of an Amalekite. And my master abandoned me three days ago, because I was sick. 
14 We have attacked the south of Chereth, and the land of Judah, and the south of Caleb, and we have burned Ziklag with fire. 
15 And David said to him, Can you bring me to this company. And he answered David: Swear to me by God that you will not kill me and that you will not deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring you to this company. 
16 And when he had brought David there, behold the Amalekites were scattered around on the ground, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. 
17 And David smote them from the twilight until the evening of the next day, and not a man of them escaped except four hundred young men who had ridden camels and fled. 
18 And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and he also rescued his two wives. 
19 And there was none of their possessions, small or great, that they did not get back. Their sons, their daughters, their spoil, David recovered all that had been taken from them. 
20 And David also took all the sheep and the oxen that were there, and his men drove them before his cattle and said: This is David's spoil. 
21 And David came to the two hundred men who had been too weary to follow him and who had stayed at the river Besor. And they went forth to meet David and the people who were with him, and David came near to them and saluted them. 
22 And all the wicked men among those who had gone with David spoke and said: Since they had not come with us, we will not give them anything of the spoil that we have recovered. But each of them will take only his wife and his children and go away from us. 
23 Then David answered them: You will not do so, my brothers, concerning what Yahweh has given us. For he has kept us and has delivered into our hands the company who had come against us. 
24 For who would listen to you in this matter [since our brothers who have not come with us had an acceptable justification]. Therefore the part of the one who went to battle will be the same as that of the one who stayed with the baggages [for it is of this case as of the one where some keep the baggages of the others]. There will be no distinction. 
25 And on that day David made it a statute and a law in Israel, and it has continued to this day. 
26 And David came back to Ziklag, and he sent a part of the spoil to the elders of Judah and to his friends by saying: this is a gift for you from the spoil of the enemies of Yahweh. 
27 And David also sent these gifts to those at Bethel, and to those at south Ramoth, and to those at Jattir. 
28 And to those at Aroer, and to those at Siphmoth, and to those at Eshtemoa. 
29 And to those at Racal, and to those at the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those at the cities of the Kenites. 
30 And to those at Hormah, and to those at Bor-ashan, and to those at Athach. 
31 And to those at Hebron, and to those at all the places where David and his people had traveled.
