1 Then Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants to incite them to kill David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David very much. 
2 And Jonathan informed David by saying: My father Saul wants to kill you. Now therefore, I pray you, beware of everyone and protect yourself until the morning. You will stay in a secret place and hide yourself. 
3 Then I will go out with my father, and we will stand in the field where you will be. And I will commune with my father concerning you, and I will see what he says, and I will tell you. 
4 So Jonathan spoke favorably of David to his father Saul by saying: Let not the king sin against his servant, against David. For he has done nothing against you, and his works have been for your advantage. 
5 For he exposed his life and killed the Philistine, and Yahweh has made a great deliverance for all Israel by his hand. And you saw it, and you rejoiced. Why then would you sin against innocent blood by killing David for no reason. 
6 And Saul heard the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore by saying: As Yahweh is alive, David will not die. 
7 Then Jonathan called David and told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and David was in the presence of Saul as in the past. 
8 And there was another battle of the war against the Philistines, and David went out and fought against them. And David killed many of them, and they fled before him. 
9 And the evil spirit of Yahweh came on Saul after that. And Saul sat down in his house with his spear in his hand, and David played the harp. 
10 And Saul Intended to nail David to the wall with the spear [because he said to himself, This man is becoming too popular and he will take my place as king if I let him live]. But David turned away from him, and Saul smote the wall with his spear. Therefore David fled.
11 And David escaped on that same night. For Saul also sent messengers to David's house to watch him and to kill him in the morning. But Michal the wife of David informed him and said: If you do not escape this night, then you will be killed tomorrow. 
12 And Michal made David go through a window. And David went, and fled, and escaped. 
13 Then Mical took the teraphim [which was in the house because of its specific representation], and she placed it in the bed. And she put a pillow of goats' hair under its head, and covered it with a cloth. 
14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, then she said: He is sick. 
15 And Saul sent the messengers again to see David by saying: Bring him to me in the bed, so that I may kill him. 
16 And when these messengers entered the house, behold the theraphim was in the bed with a pillow of goats' hair under its head. 
17 Then Saul said to Michal: Why have you deceived me like this. Why have you let go my enemy who has escaped. And Michal answered Saul, He said to me: Let me go, or I will kill you. 
18 So David fled, and escaped, and went to Samuel in Ramah. And David told Samuel all that Saul had done to him. And he went with Samuel to dwell at Naioth. 
19 And it was told Saul by saying: Behold David is at Naioth in Ramah. 
20 And Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, with Samuel as their chief, then the spirit of God came on the messengers of Saul and they also prophesied. 
21 And it was told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers a third time, and they also prophesied. 
22 Then Saul himself went to Ramah. And when he came to a great well that was in Sechu, then he asked: Where are Samuel and David. And one said: They are at Naioth in Ramah. 
23 And Saul went there, namely to Naioth in Ramah, and the spirit of God came on him also, and he prophesied while going until he came at Naioth in Ramah. 
24 And he took off his clothes, and also prophesied before Samuel, and fell down naked on the ground where he stayed all that day and all that night. And from this event came the proverb: is Saul also among the prophets.
