1 Then David went to see Ahimelech the priest at Nob. And Ahimelech was astonished to see David, and he said: Why are you alone. Why is there nobody with you [that is to say, the armed men who usually surround you when you go out to fight]. 
2 And David said to Ahimelech the priest: The king has commanded me a thing and he has said, 'Let no one know anything about the place where I am sending you or about the thing that I commanded you'. Therefore I have appointed my servants to such and such a place. 
3 Now therefore, what do you have under your hand. Give me five loaves, or whatever is found. 
4 And the priest answered David by saying: I do not have any ordinary bread on hand, but there is consecrated bread. The young men who accompany you can eat of it if they are not unclean, or if at least they have not recently copulated with women. 
5 And David answered the priest and said to him: Certainly women have been separated from us these two or three days since I went out, and the young men who are with me are clean. Moreover, if what we want to do is a profane act then it will certainly be sanctified by the one who plans everything that happens and who knows our hearts. 
6 So the priest gave him the holy bread. For there was no bread there but the shewbread which had been taken away from before Yahweh and replaced with newly made bread at the time when it was taken. 
7 When David had come to the priest, there was also in that place the chief of the shepherds of Saul. He was an Edomite named Doeg and he was there to fulfill a vow before Yahweh. 
8 And David said to Ahimelech: Have you not a spear or a sword under your hand. For I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the matter entrusted to me by the king required haste. 
9 And the priest said: The sword of Goliath the Philistine whom you killed in the valley of Elah, behold it is wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you want to take it then take it, because there is no other here. And David replied: There is none like it, give it to me [For God wanted David to need to use the sword of the one whom David absolutely wanted to despise]. 
10 And David got up and fled from Saul on the same day, and he went to Achish the king of Gath. 
11 And the servants of Achish said to him: Is not this David the king of the land. Did they not sing one to another of him in dances by saying: Saul killed his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
12 And David considered these words, and he was very afraid of Achish the king of Gath. 
13 And he changed his behavior before them. He pretended to be mad in their presence, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall on his beard. 
14 Therefore Achish said to his servants: Lo, you see clearly that this man is mad. Why have you brought him to me. 
15 Do I lack madmen so that you must bring this one to me and make me a witness of his oddities. Should he come into my house.
