1 Brothers, since you have learned from us how you should behave and please God, and this is what you are doing, we beseech and exhort you in the Lord Jesus to walk in this way from progress to progress. 
2 For you know what precepts we have given you from the Lord Jesus. 
3 What God wants is your sanctification. You must abstain from fornication. 
4 Each of you must know how to possess your body in holiness and honor. 
5 Without giving in to a passionate lust, as it is done by the Gentiles who do not know God. 
6 No man should oppress or defraud his brother in any matter. For the Lord is an avenger in all such things, as we have already told you and testified. 
7 For God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness. 
8 Therefore whoever rejects these precepts does not reject man, but God who has given you his Holy Spirit [through your faith in Jesus]. 
9 As for brotherly love, you do not need anyone to write to you about it. For you yourselves have learned from God to love one another. 
10 And this is what you are doing towards all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we exhort you, brothers, to increase more and more in this love.
11 You must do your best to have a peaceful life, and to get involved in what concerns you, and to work with your own hands, as we have recommended to you. 
12 So that you may behave honestly towards those who are not believers, and so that you are not dependent on others. 
13 We do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant concerning those who are asleep, so that you do not grieve like others who have no hope. 
14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose from the dead, then let us also believe that God will bring back through Jesus and with him those who died. 
15 For we declare to you the following thing by the word of the Lord: we who are alive and are waiting for the coming of the Lord, we will not precede those who have already died. 
16 For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. 
17 Then those who will be alive at that time will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. 
18 Therefore comfort one another with these words.
