1 Brothers, regarding the times and seasons, you do not need us to talk to you about it. 
2 For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. 
3 When people say, 'Peace and safety', then a sudden destruction will come on them, as labor pains come on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. 
4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that that day should surprise you like a thief. 
5 For you are all children of the light and children of the day. We do not belong to the night or to the darkness. 
6 Therefore let us not sleep like the others do, but let us be awake and sober. 
7 Those who sleep sleep in the darkness, and those who get drunk get drunk in the darkness. 
8 And since we belong to the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and the helmet of the hope of salvation. 
9 For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
10 He who died for us so that, whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with him. 
11 Therefore exhort one another, and edify one another, just as in fact you are doing. 
12 Now we beseech you, brothers, to have consideration for those who labor among you, those who lead you in the Lord and exhort you. 
13 Have much affection for them, because of their work. Live in peace with one another. 
14 We exhort you, brothers, to admonish the disorderly, to encourage the disheartened, to help the weak, to be patient with everyone. 
15 We ask that no one repay evil with evil. For everyone must always strive to behave towards any other person in a manner that is appropriate for the well-being of all. 
16 Rejoice always. 
17 Pray without ceasing. 
18 Give thanks in all circumstances. For this is how God wants you to live in Christ Jesus. 
19 Do not quench the Spirit. 
20 Do not despise prophecies. 
21 Examine everything, and approve what is good. 
22 Abstain from every form of evil. 
23 May the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly. May your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
24 He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. 
25 Brothers, pray for us. 
26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
27 I adjure you by the Lord to have this epistle read to all the brothers. 
28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
