1 Brothers, you yourselves know that our coming to you was not in vain. 
2 After we suffered and were shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we had the courage in our God to proclaim to you the gospel of God in the midst of much opposition. 
3 For our preaching does not stem from error, or impure motives, or guile. [That is to say, we know the truth and usefulness of the message that we preach. We know that this should be the most important thing for everyone.] 
4 But as God has approved us to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not to please men, but to please God who probe our hearts. 
5 For we never used flattering words, as you know. And it is not with a form of disguised greed that we have come to you, God is our witness. 
6 And we did not seek glory from people, neither from you nor from anyone else, when we asserted our authority as apostles of Christ [that is to say, the apostles of the one who was foretold in the Jewish scriptures.] 
7 But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother tenderly cares for her children. 
8 Because of our deep affection for you, we were eager to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our own lives, since you had become so dear to us. 
9 Brothers, you remember our labor and toil. We worked night and day, so that we would not be a burden to any of you while we preached to you the gospel of God.
10 You are witnesses, and God also, that we have behaved holily and righteously and blamelessly among you the believers. 
11 You also know how we have behaved toward each of you, as a father with his children, exhorting you, and comforting you, and urging you. 
12 In order to lead you to live a life worthy of the children of God, who has called you into his kingdom and glory. 
13 And we give thanks to God continually concerning the fact that, when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God who is indeed at work in you who believe. 
14 Brothers, you have become imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. For you also have suffered from your own countrymen the same things that they suffered from the Jews. 
15 Those Jews behave like the Jews who have killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets. They persecute us, and displease God, and are hostile to all mankind.
16 And they prevent us from speaking to the Gentiles when we want to save those Gentiles. They thus continually accumulate their sins, but the wrath of God has finally reached them. 
17 As for we, brothers, after having been separated from you for some time, physically but not in the heart, we had all the more ardently the strong desire to see you. 
18 We wanted to come to you, and I Paul, I have tried more than once to do it, but Satan hindered us. 
19 For what is our hope, or our joy, or the crown of our glory. Is it not you in the presence of our Lord Jesus when he comes. 
20 Yes, you are our glory and our joy.
