1 And David said: This is the place of the house of Yahweh God, and this is the place of the altar for the burnt offerings of Israel. 
2 And David commanded to gather together the strangers who were in the land of Israel, and he appointed masons among them to hew and polish stones in order to build the house of God. 
3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails of the doors and of the gates, and for the couplings. And he prepared brass in such an abundance that it was not possible to weigh it. 
4 And there was a remaining of cedar woods. For the people from the cities of Sidon and Tyre had brought cedar trees without number [when they came and built the king's house of David]. 
5 And David said: My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house that will be built for Yahweh must be so magnificent that its fame and glory will be known throughout all countries. That is why I want to make preparations for him. So David made many preparations before his death. 
6 Then David called his son Solomon and commanded him to build a house for Yahweh the God of Israel. 
7 And David said to Solomon his son: I had intended to build by myself a house for the name of Yahweh my God. 
8 But the word of Yahweh came to me and said: You have shed much blood, and you have made great battles. You will not build a house for my name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in my sight. 
9 Behold a son will be born to you, and he will be a man of rest. For I will give him rest from all his enemies around. Therefore his name will be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel during his days. 
10 He will build a house for my name, and he will be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever. 
11 Now therefore my son, Yahweh is with you. You will prosper and build the house of Yahweh your God, as he has spoken concerning you. 
12 May Yahweh give you wisdom and understanding so that you may bear the burden of the kingdom of Israel and keep the law of Yahweh your God. 
13 For you will prosper if you are careful to do the statutes and the judgments that Yahweh commanded by Moses for Israel. Be strong and have a good courage, do not fear and do not be discomforted. 
14 Behold in my trouble I have prepared for the house of Yahweh what seems like one hundred thousand talents of gold and one million talents of silver, and a quantity of brass and iron that cannot be weighed because there is plenty of it. I have also prepared timber and stones, and you will add more. 
15 Moreover you have with you a great number of workmen. There are hewers of stones and workers of timber, and men skilled in all kinds of work. 
16 The gold, and the silver, amd the brass, and the iron, they are each without number. Arise and do the work, and Yahweh will be with you. 
17 And David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to help Solomon his son by saying the following words. 
18 Is not Yahweh your God with you, and has he not given you rest on every side. For he has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before Yahweh and before his people. 
19 Now therefore set your hearts and your souls to seek Yahweh your God. Arise and build the sanctuary of Yahweh God, in order to bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh and the holy vessels of God into the house that you will have built for the name of Yahweh.
