1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun. 
2 And Dan, and Joseph, and Benjamin, and Naphtali, and Gad, and Asher. 
3 The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah. These three have born to him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er the firstborn of Judah was wicked in the sight of Yahweh, and Yahweh killed him [made him die]. 
4 And Tamar the daughter in law of Judah bore him Perez and Zerah. So all the sons of Judah were five. 
5 The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. 
6 The sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara. They were five. 
7 And the son of Carmi [who was the son of Zimri]: Achar who troubled Israel when he transgressed in the prohibited things. 
8 And the son of Ethan: Azariah. 
9 And the sons who have born to Hezron: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai [Caleb]. 
10 And Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon who had been prince of the children of Judah. 
11 And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz. 
12 And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse. 
13 And Jesse begat Eliab his firstborn, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third. 
14 And Nethanel the fourth, and Raddai the fifth. 
15 And Ozem the sixth, and David the seventh. 
16 And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah were three: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel. 
17 And Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether an Ishmaelite. 
18 And Caleb the son of Hezron begat children of Azubah his wife who was the daughter of Jerioth. And the sons of Azubah were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
19 And after the death of Azubah, Caleb took Ephrath who bore him Hur. 
20 And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezalel. 
21 Then Hezron went to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, and he took her when he was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub [he was considered a descendant of Machir of the tribe of Manasseh in the same way that Jacob had adopted two of Joseph's sons].
22 And Segub begat Jair who had twenty three cities in the land of Gilead. 
23 And Geshur and Syria took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath and its towns, sixty cities. All these had belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gilead. 
24 And after the death of Hezron at Caleb-ephrathah, then Abijah the wife of Hezron bore him Ashur the father of Tekoa. 
25 And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah. 
26 And Jerahmeel had another wife whose name was Atarah, and she was the mother of Onam. 
27 And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
28 And the sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. 
29 And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid. 
30 And the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim, but Seled died without children. 
31 And the son of Appaim was Ishi, and the son of Ishi was Sheshan, and the son of Sheshan was Ahlai. 
32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai were Jether and Jonathan. And Jether died without children. 
33 And the sons of Jonathan were Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
34 And Sheshan had no sons, but he had daughters. And Sheshan had a servant who was an Egyptian named Jarha. 
35 And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife, and she bore him Attai. 
36 And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad. 
37 And Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed. 
38 And Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah. 
39 And Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah. 
40 And Eleasah begat Sismai, and Sismai begat Shallum. 
41 And Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama. 
42 And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn who was the father of Ziph, and Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
43 And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
44 And Shema begat Raham the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem begat Shammai. 
45 And the son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was father of Beth-Zur. 
46 And Ephah a concubine of Caleb bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran begat Gazez. 
47 And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jothan, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
48 And Maacah a concubine of Caleb bore Sheber and Tirhanah. 
49 She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, and Sheva the father of Machbena and of Gibea. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
50 These were the sons of Caleb. And now the others sons of Hur [a son of Caleb and] the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim. 
51 And Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
52 And the sons of Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh and half of the Menuhoth. 
53 And the families of Kiriath-jearim were the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites from whom came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites. 
54 And the sons [descendants] of Salma: the people of Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, the people of Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, and the Zorites. 
55 And the families of the scribes who dwelt at Jabez, and the Tirathites, and the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath the father of the house of Rechab.
