1 Now these are those who came to David at Ziklag, while he was yet hiding himself because of Saul the son of Kish. They were among the valiants and helpers of the battles. 
2 They were archers, and they could indifferently use their right hand or their left hand with slingshots and with arrows and with their bows. And they were of the tribe of Benjamin, and thus of the brothers of Saul. 
3 Ahiezer their chief and Joash the sons of Shemaah a Gibeathite, and Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu the Anathothites. 
4 And Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty heroes and their leader, and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad the Gederathite. 
5 And Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite. 
6 And Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, of the Korahites. 
7 And Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham who was from Gedor. 
8 And also some Gadites had come to join themselves to David at the stronghold in the wilderness. They were valiant men trained for war who could handle shield and spear, and their faces were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the roes on the mountains. 
9 Ezer the chief, and Obadiah the second, and Eliab the third. 
10 And Mishmannah the fourth, and Jeremiah the fifth. 
11 And Attai the sixth, and Eliel the seventh. 
12 And Johanan the eighth, and Elzabad the ninth. 
13 And Jeremiah the tenth, and Machbannai the eleventh. 
14 These of the sons of Gad were the captains of the army. The least of them could fight a hundred men, and the greatest a thousand. 
15 They are those who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it had overflowed all its banks, and did put to flight all the inhabitants of the valley, toward the east and the west. 
16 And there were also of the sons of Benjamin and of Judah who came to David into the stronghold. 
17 And David went out to meet them, and spoke to them by saying: If you come to me with good intentions to help me, then my heart will be united with you. But if it is to deceive me for the benefit of my enemies while there is no wickedness in my hand, then the God of our fathers will see it and rebuke it. 
18 And the spirit came on Amasaih who was the chief of the compagny, and he said to David: We are yours, David. For we are on your side, you the son of Jesse. Peace, peace be on you and peace be on your helpers, because your God helps you. Then David received them, and made them captains of his compagny. 
19 And also some of the men of Manasseh joined themselves to David when he went with the Philistines to fight against [the army of] Saul. But David and his men did not help the Philistines, for the princes of the Philistines sent him away after careful consideration by saying: He may change sides and join his former master to take our lives. 
20 So while he was going back to Ziklag, these are the men of Manasseh who joined him: Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai. They were captains of the thousands of Manasseh. 
21 And they helped David against the the wicked men who travelled to plunder. For they were all mighty men and were captains in the army. 
22 For in that time the people joined David day by day to help him, until he had a great army like the army of God. 
23 And these are the numbers of the men who came armed for war to David at Hebron in order to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of Yahweh [who had spoken by his servant Samuel that David will be king]. 
24 From the children of Judah bearing shield and spear, there were six thousand and eight hundred men armed for war. 
25 and from the children of Simeon, there were seven thousand and one hundred valiant men of war. 
26 And from the children of Levi, there were four thousand and six hundred men. 
27 And Jehoiada was the leader of those of the family of Aaron who came there, and with him was three thousand and seven hundred men. 
28 And Zadok a young and valiant man, with his father's household, twenty two captains. 
29 And from the children of Benjamin which is the tribe of Saul, there were three thousand men. For at that time most of them had remained faithful to the house of Saul. 
30 And from the children of Ephraim, there were twenty thousand and eight hundred valiant men who were famous throughout the households of their fathers. 
31 And from the half of the tribe of Manasseh [on this side of the Jordan], there were eighteen thousand men who had been chosen by name to go and make David king. 
32 And from the children of Issachar, which was a tribe in which people had understanding of the times in order to know by themselves what Israel should do, there were two hundred captains and all their brothers were under their commandment. 
33 And from Zebulun went out fifty thousand men who were experts in war and in all the weapons of war. They were ready to set battles in array and they were not of a double heart [because they were loyal in everything they did]. 
34 And from Naphtali there were one thousand captains, and with them there were thirty seven thousand men bearing shield and spear. 
35 And from Dan there were twenty eight thousand and six hundred men expert in battle. 
36 And from Asher there were forty thousand men ready for battles. 
37 And from the other side of the Jordan, of the Reubenites, and of the Gadites, and of the other half of the tribe of Manasseh, there were one hundred and twenty thousand men with all kinds of weapons of war. 
38 All these men of war who were ready to fight came at Hebron with an upright heart to make David king over all Israel. And all the remaining of Israel were of one accord to make David king. 
39 And they were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had prepared food for them. 
40 Moreover those who lived near them in all the land, as far as the territory of Issachar, and of Zebulun, and of Naphtali, they brought food on donkeys, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen. There were victuals made with flour, and cakes of figs, and clusters of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen and sheep in abundance. For there was joy in Israel.
