1 Adam, Seth, Enosh. 
2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jered. 
3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech. 
4 Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth. 
5 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
6 And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Diphath, and Togarmah. 
7 And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, and Kittim, and Rodanim. 
8 The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan. 
9 And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 
10 And Cush begat Nimrod who began to be a mighty one on earth. 
11 And Mizraim begat the Ludim, and the Ananim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim. 
12 And the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim from whom came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim. 
13 And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and Heth. 
14 And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite. 
15 And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite. 
16 And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
17 The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
18 And Arpachshad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber. 
19 And Eber had two sons: The name of one was Peleg because the land was divided during his lifetime [the people on the earth were divided into different languages], and the name of his brother was Joktan. 
20 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah. 
21 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah. 
22 And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba. 
23 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
24 [Thus] Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah. 
25 Eber, Peleg, Reu. 
26 Serug, Nahor, Terah. 
27 Abram [the same is Abraham]. 
28 And the sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 
29 These are their generations. Nebaioth the firstborn of Ishmael, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam. 
30 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, and Hadad, and Tema. 
31 And Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael. 
32 And the sons of Keturah the concubine of Abraham. She bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. 
33 And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. These are all the sons of Keturah. 
34 And Abraham begat Isaac. And the sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel. 
35 And the sons of Esau: Eliphaz, and Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. 
36 And the sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, and Zephi, and Gatam, and Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
37 And the sons of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, and Shammah, and Mizzah. 
38 And the sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. 
39 And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. And Timna was the sister of Lotan. 
40 The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. 
41 And the son of Anah was Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Amran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Jaakan. And the sons of Dishan: Uz, and Aran. 
43 And now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before a king reigned over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
44 Then Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
45 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 
46 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad reigned in his stead. Hadad smote Midian in the fields of Moab. His city was called Avith. 
47 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
48 And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth near the great river reigned in his stead. 
49 And Saul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
50 And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his stead. And the name of his city was Pau, and the name of his wife Mehetabel the daughter of Matred the daughter of Me-zahab. 
51 And Hadad died. And the chiefs of Edom were: chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth. 
52 Chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon. 
53 Chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar. 
54 Chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.
