1 And David took counsel with the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and with all the leaders. 
2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel: If it pleases you, and if it is the desire of Yahweh our God, then let us send on every side to our brothers who remain in all the land of Israel, with whom are the priests and the Levites in their cities and their suburbs, so that they may gather themselves to us. 
3 And we will bring back to us the ark of our God. For we did not worry about it in the days of Saul. 
4 And all the assembly decided to do so, because the thing seemed good in the eyes of all the people. 
5 So David assembled all [the people of] Israel together from Shihor in Egypt to the entrance of Hamath, in order to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim. 
6 And David and all Israel went up to Baalah which is Kiriath-jearim and which belonged to Judah, in order to bring up from there the ark of God before which is called the name of Yahweh who dwells between the cherubim above the ark. 
7 And they carried the ark of God on a new chariot out of the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio drove the chariot. 
8 And David and all Israel danced before God with all their might, singing and playing with harps, and with psalteries, and with tambourines, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. 
9 And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, then Uzza stretched his hand toward the ark of God to catch it because the oxen did shake it. 
10 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Uzza, and he smote him because he stretched out his hand on the ark [because his intention was to prevent God from falling at a time when the exact identity of God is still unknown, God himself who was identified by this ark and not a man]. And Uzza died there before God. 
11 And David was angry because Yahweh had punished Uzza with such a punishment. And he called the name of that place Perez-uzza, and it is its name to this day. 
12 And David was afraid of God on that day, and he said: How can I bring the ark of God to my home. 
13 Therefore David did not bring the ark to his home in the city of David, but he brought it to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
14 So the ark of God stayed with the household of Obed-edom. It stayed in his house three months, and Yahweh blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that he had.
