1 So they came in with the ark of God, and did put it in the middle of the tent that David had set up for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. 
2 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh. 
3 And then he distributed to every person of Israel, both man and woman, to each a loaf of bread, and a portion of meat [flesh], and a bottle of wine. 
4 And he appointed some of the Levites to serve before the ark of Yahweh, and to celebrate and to thank and praise Yahweh the God of Israel. 
5 Those persons were Asaph the chief, and Zechariah the second, and Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel. They had musical instruments, psalteries and harps, and Asaph sounded the cymbals. 
6 And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests sounded the trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
7 It was on that day that David appointed for the first time some Levites to sing praises to Yahweh, and those Levites were Asaph and his brothers. 
8 Praise Yahweh and call on his name. Make known his works among the peoples. 
9 Sing to him, sing praises to him. Talk of all his marvellous works. 
10 Rejoice in his holy name, let the hearts of those who seek Yahweh rejoice. 
11 Seek Yahweh and his strength, seek his face continuously. 
12 Remember his marvellous works that he has done, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth. 
13 O you the seed of Israel who has been his servant, O you the children of Jacob who has been his chosen. 
14 Yahweh is our God, and he makes his judgments throughout the whole earth. 
15 You must remember his covenant continuously, the word that he commanded to a thousand generations. 
16 The covenant that he made with Abraham, and the oath that he swore to Isaac. 
17 He has confirmed it to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant. 
18 For he said: I will give you the land of Canaan which is the lot of your inheritance [that is to say, the land from which your inheritance will be established by the chosen one, the Shiloh of the tribe of Judah in whom will be the obedience of the peoples according to the blessings that Jacob announced before his death. For he said it to each of them, and they all died according to the flesh without the fulfillment of this promise as it is written: I appeared to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob by the name of Almighty God, but I was not known to them by my name Yahweh. And I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimages in which they were strangers.] 
19 At that time they were few in number [each of them and his possessions who were his family and his servants], very few, and they were strangers in that land. 
20 And at that time they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people. 
21 But Yahweh suffered no man to hurt them, and he rebuked kings for their sakes. 
22 For he said: Do not touch my anointed ones, do not harm my prophets. 
23 Sing to Yahweh, you all the inhabitants of the earth. Proclaim his salvation from day to day. 
24 Declare his glory among the nations, and his marvellous works among all the peoples. 
25 For Yahweh is great and deserves to be highly praised. He is to be feared above all gods. 
26 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but Yahweh made the heavens. 
27 Honor and majesty are before him, strength and joy are in his dwelling place. 
28 Praise Yahweh, you all the families of the peoples. Praise the glory and the power of Yahweh. 
29 Praise the glory of the name of Yahweh, bring an offering [the wish to belong to him by submitting to his law] and come into his presence. Worship Yahweh for the beauty of his holiness. 
30 Tremble before him, you all the inhabitants of the earth. The world is established and will not be moved. 
31 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad. Let them say among the nations: Yahweh reigns. 
32 Let the sea roar, and all that is in it. Let the field exult, and all that is in it. 
33 Let the trees of the forest sing for joy before Yahweh. For he comes to judge the earth. 
34 Praise Yahweh because he is good. For his mercy endures forever. 
35 Say to him: Save us, O God our savior. Gather us together and deliver us from the wicked [all kinds of wicked], so that we may praise your holy name and joyfully praise you. 
36 Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel from generations to generations, and let all the people say: So be it, praise Yahweh. 
37 Then David left Asaph and his brothers there before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, to serve before the ark continually according to the daily work of their service. 
38 And also Obed-edom and his brothers [the Levites], sixty eight men. And Obed-edom the son of Jeduthun and Hosah were doorkeepers. 
39 And David appointed Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of Yahweh in the high place that was at Gibeon. 
40 In order to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh continually on the altar of burnt offerings, in the morning and in the evening, and to do all that is written in the law of Yahweh that he commanded to Israel. 
41 Among the singers at Jerusalem there were Heman and Jeduthun and the others who were chosen and designated by name to praise Yahweh, because his mercy endures forever. 
42 So Heman and Jeduthun were with them to sound with the cornets and with the cymbals, and also with other instruments in order to sing songs to God. And the sons of Jeduthun were doorkeepers at the gate. 
43 And all the people went every man to his house, and David returned to bless his house.
