1 And now here are the children of Israel who served the king in all matters concerning the regular army, the chief of the fathers houses and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers. Each group was made of twenty four thousand men and served for one month per year, and so the service continued throughout the year. 
2 Over the first group for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
3 He was of the sons of Perez, and he was over all the captains of the army during the first month. 
4 And over the group of the second month there was Dodai the Ahohite, and Mikloth was a captain of his group, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
5 And the captain of the third group for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada the priest, a chief among the mighty men of David, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
6 This Benaiah was a mighty man among the thirty heroes of David, and he was over the thirty, and Ammizadab his son was in his group. 
7 And the fourth captain was Asahel the brother of Joab, and after him [when he died] there was Zebadiah his son. He was appointed for the fourth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
8 And the fifth captain was Shamhuth the Izrahite. He was appointed for the fifth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
9 And the sixth captain was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. He was appointed for the sixth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
10 And the seventh captain was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim. He was appointed for the seventh month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
11 And the eighth captain was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites. He was appointed for the eighth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
12 And the ninth captain was Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites. He was appointed for the ninth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
13 And the tenth captain was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites. He was appointed for the tenth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
14 And the eleventh captain was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim. He was appointed for the eleventh month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
15 And the twelfth captain was Heldai the Netophathite, of the family of Othniel. He was appointed for the twelfth month, and his group were made of twenty four thousand men. 
16 And now these were the rulers over the tribes of Israel: Over the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri. Over the Simeonites was Shephatiah the son of Maacah. 
17 Over the Levites was Hashabiah the son of Kemuel. Over the family of Aaron was Zadok [he was not the high priest successor to Aaron who has other responsibilities according to the commandments of Moses]. 
18 Over Judah was Eliab who was one of the brothers of David. Over Issachar was Omri the son of Michael. 
19 Over Zebulun was Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah. Over Naphtali was Jeremoth the son of Azriel. 
20 Over the sons of Ephraim was Hoshea the son of Azaziah. Over of the half of the tribe of Manasseh [on this side of the Jordan] was Joel the son of Pedaiah. 
21 Over the half of the tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo the son of Zechariah. Over Benjamin was Jaasiel the son of Abner. 
22 Over Dan was Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel. 
23 And when David had decided to count the men in Israel, he had not commanded to count those who were from twenty years old and under because Yahweh had said that he will increase Israel to make them as numerous as the stars of the heaven. [This was the justification in David's heart. For David did not want to know the number of subjects in his kingdom since women were not counted, but rather the number of the men in the people of Yahweh despite the fact that Yahweh had authorized foreigners to attach themselves to his people and to practice the same commandments as his people.]
24 And Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to number the people, but he had not finished it because the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel. And the census results had not been put into the records of the chronicles of king David. 
25 Now Azmaveth the son of Adiel was over the storehouses of the king, and Jonathan the son of Uzziah was over the storehouses in the fields, and the cities, and in the villages, and in the fortresses. 
26 And Ezri the son of Chelub was over the laborers in the fields who cultivated the ground. 
27 And Shimei the Ramathite was over the vineyards, and Zabdi the Shiphmite was over the produce of the vineyards and over the stores of the wine. 
28 And Baal-hanan the Gederite was over the olive trees and the mulberry trees that was in the valleys, and Joash was over the stores of oil. 
29 And Shitrai the Sharonite was over the herds that fed in Sharon, and Shaphat the son of Adlai was over the herds in the valleys. 
30 And Obil the Ishmaelite was over the camels, and Jehdeiah the Meronothite was over the donkeys. 
31 And Jaziz the Hagrite was over the flocks. All these persons were the overseers of king David's property. 
32 And Jonathan the uncle of David was a counselor, a man of understanding and a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni took care of the king's sons. 
33 And Ahithophel was the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend. 
34 And after Ahithophel [when he separated from the king] there was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and also Abiathar. And Joab was captain of the king's army.
