1 Afterward David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Gath and its towns from the hands of the Philistines. 
2 And he defeated the Moabites, and the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts. 
3 And David defeated Hadarezer the king of Zobah all the way to the town of Hamath, when he went to establish his border near the river Euphrates. 
4 And David took from him one thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And David destroyed all the chariots but reserved one hundred of them. 
5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadarezer the king of Zobah, then David killed twenty two thousand men of the Syrians. 
6 And David put garrisons in the city Damascus of the Syrians, and the Syrians became the servants of David and brought gifts. And Yahweh protected David wherever he went. 
7 And David took the shields of gold that the servants of Hadarezer had, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
8 And David also took a large quantity of brass from Tibhath and from Cun which were of the cities of Hadarezer. And later Solomon used it to make the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass. 
9 And Tou the king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadarezer the king of Zobah. 
10 Therefore Tou sent Hadoram his son to king David, to greet him and to congratulate him for having attacked Hadarezer and having defeated him. For Tou was at war with Hadarezer. And Hadoram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass. 
11 And king David dedicated them to Yahweh, as he had already dedicated the silver and gold taken from all the nations: from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
12 And Abishai the son of Zeruiah defeated eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 
13 And he put garrisons in Edom. and all the Edomites became the servants of David. And Yahweh protected David wherever he went. 
14 And David reigned over all Israel, and he acted with fairness and justice towards all his people. 
15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was in control of the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was archivist. 
16 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abiathar the son of Ahimelech, they were priests. And Shavsha was scribe. 
17 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in control of the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David were chief rulers subjected to the king.
