1 So David and the captains of the army separated the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, so that they may prophesied [they may be overwhelmed by the spirit] while playing with harps, and with violas, and with cymbals. And here is a list of those who served this way. 
2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah,and Asharelah, these sons of Asaph were led by Asaph, and they had been chosen by the king in order to prophesy in this way. 
3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, and Shimei. They were six  under the guidance of their father Jeduthun, and they prophesied with the harp in order to give thanks and to praise Yahweh. 
4 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, and Mattaniah, and Uzziel, and Shebuel, and Jerimoth, and Hananiah, and Hanani, and Eliathah, and Giddalti, and Romamthiezer, and Joshbekashah, and Mallothi, and Hothir, and Mahazioth. 
5 All these were the sons of Heman who was [also] the king's seer in the words of God [concerning instructions with an immediate effect], and they were there to worship. God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
6 All these person were under the guidance of their fathers for the song of the house of Yahweh. And they had cymbals, and violas, and harps, in order to serve at the house of God. Asaph and Jeduthun and Heman were subject to the king’s orders. 
7 With their brothers [of the Levites] they were two hundred and eighty eight men who were appointed to sing praises to Yahweh, all those who were skillful. 
8 And they did cast lots to establish their service periods, without making a difference between the young and the old, or the disciple and the master. 
9 The first lot came out for Joseph who was among the people of Asaph. The second was for Gedaliah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
10 And the third was for Zaccur, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
11 And the fourth was for Izri, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
12 And the fifth was for Nethaniah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
13 And the sixth was for Bukkiah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
14 And the seventh was for Jesharelah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
15 And the eighth was for Jeshaiah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
16 And the ninth was for Mattaniah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
17 And the tenth was for Shimei, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
18 And the eleventh was for in Azarel, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
19 And the twelfth was for Hashabiah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
20 And the thirteenth was for Shubael, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
21 And the fourteenth was for Mattithiah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
22 And the fifteenth was for Jeremoth, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
23 And the sixteenth was for Hananiah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
24 And the seventeenth was for Joshbekashah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
25 And the eighteenth was for Hanani, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
26 And the nineteenth was for Mallothi, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
27 And the twentieth was for Eliathah, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
28 And the twenty first was for Hothir, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
29 And the twenty second was for Giddalti, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
30 And the twenty third was for Mahazioth, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
31 And the twenty fourth was for Romamtiezer, he and his sons and his brothers, twelve.
