1 The sons of Judah: Perez, and Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal. 
2 And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath, and Jahath begat Ahumai and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites. 
3 And these were of the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash. And the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi. 
4 And Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah and the father of Bethlehem. 
5 And Asher the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 
6 And Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
7 And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan. 
8 And Hakkoz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum. 
9 And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers, and his mother gave him the name of Jabez by saying: Because I gave birth to him with pain. 
10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel by saying: I hope that you bless me and give me more land, and may your hand be with me so that you keep me from the sorrow of misfortune. And God granted him what he had asked. 
11 And Chelub the brother of Shuhah begat Mehir who was the father of Eshton. 
12 And Eshton begat Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of the city of Nahash. These are the men of Recah. 
13 And the sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. And the son of Othniel was Hathath. 
14 And Meonothai begat Ophrah. And Seraiah begat Joab the father of valley of craftsmen, because they were craftsmen. 
15 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh were Iru, and Elah, and Naam. And the son of Elah was Kenaz. 
16 And the sons of Jehallelel were Ziph, and Ziphah, and Tiria, and Asarel. 
17 And the sons of Ezrah were Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon. And the wife of Mered gave birth to Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
18 And Mered also had an Egyptian wife who bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh whom Mered took. 
19 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham were: the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite. 
20 And the sons of Shimon were Amnon, and Rinnah, and Ben-hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were Zoheth and Ben-zoheth. 
21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the households of those who wrought fine linen in the house of Ashbea. 
22 And Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in Moab, and Jashubi-lehem. These also are ancient things. 
23 They were potters and those who dwelt among plants and hedges. They lived there near the king [of the land] and worked for him. 
24 The sons of Simeon were Nemuel, and Jamin, and Jarib, and Zerah, and Shaul. 
25 And the son of Shaul was Shallum, and his son Mibsam, and his son Mishma. 
26 And the son of Mishma was Hammuel, and his son Zaccur, and his son Shimei. 
27 And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters. But his brothers did not have many children, and all their families did not multiply as much as the children of Judah. 
28 And they dwelt at Beersheba, and at Moladah, and at Hazar-shual. 
29 And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad. 
30 And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag. 
31 And Beth-marcaboth, and at Hazar-susim, and at Beth-biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David. 
32 And their towns were Etam, and Ain, and Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities. 
33 And all their towns that were around these cities, to Baal. These were their habitations, and their genealogy. 
34 Now Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah. 
35 And Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah the son of Seraiah the son of Asiel. 
36 And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah. 
37 And Ziza the son of Shiphei, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah. 
38 These mentioned by name were famous princes in their families, for they have greatly increased their fathers' houses. 
39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor to the east side of the valley, in order to seek pasture for their sheep. 
40 And they found fat and good pasture, and a large land, both quiet and peaceful. For those who had dwelt there previously were descendants of Ham. 
41 And those men described by name came there in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents and the inhabitants who were found there, and destroyed them utterly to this day, and dwelt in their stead, because there was pasture there for their sheep. 
42 And there were also five hundred men of the sons of Simeon who went to the mount Seir. Their chiefs were Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 
43 And they defeated the remaining of Amalek who had escaped, and they dwelt there to this day.
