1 Now when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel. 
2 And he assembled all the princes of Israel, with the priests and the Levites. 
3 And they numbered the Levites from twenty years old and upward, according to their fathers' houses, man by man, and the sum of those who had been counted was thirty eight thousand men. 
4 And David established twenty four thousand men among them to do the service of the house of Yahweh, and six thousand men to be officers and judges. 
5 And four thousand men to be doorkeepers, and four thousand men to praise Yahweh with the instruments that I have made to praise Yahweh [said David]. 
6 So David divided them according to the sons of Levi namely Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. 
7 Of the Gershonites there were Ladan and Shimei. 
8 And the sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three men. 
9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and Haran, three men. These were the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the families of Ladan. 
10 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, and Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These were the four sons of Shimei. 
11 And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons therefore they were one father's house. 
12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel, four sons. 
13 And the sons of Amram were Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated to sanctify the most holy place, he and his sons forever, to burn incense before Yahweh, and to minister to him, and to bless in his name forever. 
14 But the sons of Moses the man of God were just numbered among the tribe of Levi [without being considered as being particularly exceptional, and yet their father was the most exceptional]. 
15 And the sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. 
16 And of the sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief. 
17 And the son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief. For Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very numerous. 
18 And the son of Izhar: Shelomith the chief. 
19 And the sons of Hebron were Jeriah the chief, and Amariah the second, and Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
20 And the sons of Uzziel were Micah the chief, and Isshiah the second. 
21 And the sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. And the sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
22 And Eleazar died without having sons, but he had daughters and they were took to wives by their brothers the sons of Kish. 
23 And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three men. 
24 These were the sons of Levi according to their chief fathers, and it is according to these fathers' houses that they were counted by the number of names. And those who were to do the service in the house of Yahweh were twenty old and upward. 
25 For David said: Yahweh the God of Israel has given rest to his people, so that they may dwell in Jerusalem forever. 
26 And also the Levites will no longer carry the tabernacle or any of its vessels used for its service. 
27 Therefore it was according to the last words of David that the Levites were numbered from twenty years old and upward. 
28 And their office was under the hand of the sons [descendants] of Aaron concerning the service that was to be done in the courtyard of the house of Yahweh and in the chambers [which were to be built around the house made of the holy place and of the most holy place], and to watch over all the holy things which must remain clean, and to prepare all the things for the work of the service of the house of God. 
29 Namely the showbreads, and the fine flour of the meal offerings, and the unleavened cakes, and the cakes that are fried, and the cakes that are roasted, and all kinds of measurements. 
30 And David had also planned that the Levites should stood every morning and every evening to thank and praise Yahweh. 
31 And concerning those of the burnt offerings of Yahweh that were to be made in the sabbaths, and in the new moons, and in the appointed feasts, according to the number and custom prescribed, the Levites were to be present [some of them in order to represent them]. 
32 And they were also to perform in the new house the duties that they performed in the old holy place which was the tent of meeting, by assisting their brothers the sons of Aaron in the service of the house of Yahweh.
