1 And king David said to all the assembly: God has chosen only Solomon my son who is young and inexperienced. And the work is great, because this house is not for man but for Yahweh God. 
2 Now I have put all my strength to make preparations for the house of my God. The gold for what is to be done with gold, and the silver for what is to be done with silver, and the brass for what is to be done with brass, and the iron for what is to be done with iron, and the wood for what is to be done with wood, and onyx stones, and stones to be set, and carbuncle stones, and of divers colours, and all kinds of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance. 
3 Moreover, because I take pleasure in the house of my God, I have given to the house of my God the gold and silver that belong to me, in addition to all that I have caused to prepare for the house of the sanctuary. 
4 There are three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, in order to overlay the walls of the houses. 
5 There are gold for the things of gold, and silver for the things of silver, for all the work which are to be made by the hands of artificers. And now, who among you is willing to make an offering to Yahweh today. 
6 So the princes of the fathers' houses, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and the king's officers, they all offered willingly. 
7 And they gave for the service of the house of God five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand darics [golden pieces used as money], and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of brass, and one hundred thousand talents of iron. 
8 And those who had precious stones gave them to the treasure of the house of Yahweh, which was under the hand of [the sons of] Jehieli the Gershonite. 
9 And the people rejoiced for their freewill offerings, because they offered willingly to Yahweh with a perfect heart. And David the king also rejoiced greatly. 
10 Therefore David blessed Yahweh in the presence of all the assembly, and David said: Blessed are you, O Yahweh the God of our father Israel, forever and ever. 
11 Greatness belongs to you, O Yahweh, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the praise. For all that is in the heaven and on the earth belong to you. The kingship belongs to you, O Yahweh, because you are exalted as the head of everything. 
12 Riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. Power and strength are in your hand, it is your hand that makes great and gives strength to all things. 
13 Now therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name. 
14 Who am I, and what is my people, so that we can give you willingly these offerings. Everything comes from you, and it is by your own hand that we have given you something. 
15 For we are strangers and sojourners in your sight, like all our fathers. Our days on earth are like shadows, and none remains eternally in the flesh. 
16 O Yahweh our God, all this abundance that we have prepared in order to build you a house comes from your hand, because it is to you that everything belongs. 
17 My God, I also know that you probe the heart and that you are delighted in righteousness. As for me, it is in the uprightness of my heart that I have willingly offered all these things. And now I have seen with joy that your people who are here have also voluntarily given you their gifts. 
18 O Yahweh the God of our fathers Abraham and Isaac and Israel, keep this forever in the thoughts of the hearts of your people, and prepare their hearts to serve you. 
19 And give to my son Solomon a perfect heart to keep your commandments, and your testimonies, and your statutes, so that he may do all these things when he will have built the house for which I have made preparations. 
20 And David said to the whole assembly, Now bless Yahweh your God. And the whole assembly blessed Yahweh the God of their fathers, and they bowed their heads down and worshiped Yahweh in the presence of the king. 
21 And the next day they offered sacrifices to Yahweh. They offered burnt offerings to Yahweh, one thousand bullocks, and one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and they also offered sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 
22 And they did eat and drink before Yahweh on that day with a great gladness, and it was then that they proclaimed Solomon the son of David king for the second time. And they anointed Solomon to be prince before Yahweh, and Zadok to be high priest. 
23 So Solomon sat on the throne of Yahweh as king in the stead of David his father, and he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. 
24 And all the princes [of the tribes] and the men of power, and all the sons of king David, they submitted themselves to king Solomon. 
25 And Yahweh exalted Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and he made the kingdom of Solomon more glorious than that of the kings of Israel who were before him. 
26 David the son of Jesse had reigned thus over all Israel. 
27 And the duration of his reign over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty three years in Jerusalem. 
28 And David died in a good old age, full of days and of riches and of honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 
29 Concerning the acts of David the king, the first and the last, behold they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer. 
30 With all his reign and his exploits, and what happened either in Israel or in all the kingdoms of other countries during his reign.
