1 These are the divisions of the gatekeepers. Of the Korahites: Meshelemiah the son of Kore of the sons of Asaph. 
2 And the sons of Meshelemiah: Zechariah the firstborn, and Jediael the second, and Zebadiah the third, and Jathniel the fourth. 
3 And Elam the fifth, and Jehohanan the sixth, and Eliehoenai the seventh. 
4 And the sons of Obed-edom: Shemaiah the firstborn, and Jehozabad the second, and Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth. 
5 And Ammiel the sixth, and Issachar the seventh, and Peullethai the eighth. For God had blessed him. 
6 And to Shemaiah his son were born sons who ruled in the house of their ancestors, for they were mighty men. 
7 And the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, and Elzabad, and also Elihu and Semachiah their brothers who were strong men. 
8 All these were of the sons [descendants] of Obed-edom, they and their sons and their brothers. They were valiant men and able to serve, sixty two men of Obed-edom. 
9 And the sons and brothers of Meshelemiah were eighteen valiant men. 
10 Of the sons of Merari: Hosah whose sons were Shimri the chief, who was made chief by his father although he was not the eldest. 
11 And Hilkiah the second, and Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen. 
12 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers according to their chiefs. They had a special way to serve in the house of Yahweh as their brothers the Levites did. 
13 And they did cast lots to establish their service for each gate according to their fathers' houses, without making a difference between the small and the great among them.  
14 And the lot on the east side came out for Shelemiah. And they cast lots for Zechariah his son who was a wise counselor, and the north side came out for him by lot. 
15 And the south side came out for Obed-edom, and the storehouse for his sons. 
16 And the west side came out for Shuppim and Hosah, with the gate of Shallecheth by the paved street that goes upward. One guard was opposite another. 
17 Every day there were six Levites on the east side, and four on the north side, and four on the south side, and four for the storehouses in two places. 
18 And in the courtyard on the west side, there were four Levites near the paved street and two in the courtyard. 
19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers: They were of the sons of Korah and of the sons of Merari. 
20 And one of the Levites whose name was Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God and over the treasures of the dedicated things. 
21 Of the sons of Ladan, namely the sons of the Gershonites who were descendants of Ladan, one of the chief fathers was Jehieli. 
22 And the sons of Jehieli were Zetham and Joel his brother. They were over the treasures of the house of Yahweh. 
23 And now of the Amramites, and of the Izharites, and of the Hebronites, and of the Uzzielites. 
24 Concerning Shebuel the son of Gershom the son of Moses, he [his descendant who was the chief of his house] was a ruler over the treasures. 
25 And of his brothers the descendants of Eliezer, there was Shelomoth [his descendant who was the chief of his house] who was the son of Zichri, the son of Joram, the son of Isaiah, the son of Rechabiah, the son of Eliezer. 
26 This Shelomoth and his brothers were over all the treasures of the holy things that had been dedicated by king David, and by the chiefs of the fathers' houses, and by the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and by the captains of the army. 
27 For they had dedicated things to the house of Yahweh, out of the spoils taken in the wars. 
28 And all that had been dedicated by Samuel the seer, and by Saul the son of Kish, and by Abner the son of Ner, and by Joab the son of Zeruiah, and by whoever had dedicated something, it was under the hand of Shelomoth and his brothers. 
29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were outside the santuary and they were officers and judges in Israel. 
30 Of the Hebronites, there were Hashabiah and his brothers, one thousand and seven hundred valiant men, and they were officers for Israel on the other side of the Jordan westward, for all the matters of Yahweh and for the service of the king. 
31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief. In the fortieth year of David's reign, a search was made according to the houses of their fathers by their generations, and valiant men was found among them at Jazer in Gilead. 
32 And among the brothers [in the family of the Hebronites] of Jerijah there were two thousand and seven hundred valiant men who were chiefs of fathers' houses. And king David made them rulers over the Reubenites, and over the Gadites, and over the half of the tribe of Manasseh, concerning all the matters of God and of the king.
