1 Now these were the sons of David who have born to him in Hebron. Amnon of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, the firstborn. And Daniel of Abigail the Carmelitess, the second. 
2 And Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur, the third. And Adonijah the son of Haggith, the fourth. 
3 And Shephatiah of Abital, the fifth. And Ithream by Eglah his wife, the sixth. 
4 These six were born to David in Hebron, and he reigned there seven years and six months. And David reigned thirty three years in Jerusalem. 
5 And these are those who have born to him in Jerusalem. Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four sons from Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel. 
6 And Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet. 
7 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia. 
8 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine other sons. 
9 These are all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines. And Tamar was their sister. 
10 And the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, and Abijah his son, and Asa his son, and Jehoshaphat his son. 
11 And Joram his son, and Ahaziah his son, and Joash his son. 
12 And Amaziah his son, and Azariah his son, and Jotham his son. 
13 And Ahaz his son, and Hezekiah his son, and Manasseh his son. 
14 And Amon his son, and Josiah his son. 
15 And the sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, Jehoiakim the second, and Zedekiah the third, and Shallum the fourth. 
16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah [Jehoiachin] his son, and Zedekiah his son. 
17 And the sons of Jeconiah [Jehoiachin] after he was taken to captivity: Shealtiel his son. 
18 And Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, and Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
19 And the sons Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the of Zerubbabel were Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister. 
20 And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five other sons. 
21 And the son of Hananiah: Pelatiah, and Jeshaiah, and Rephaiah, and Arnan, and Obadiah, and Shecaniah. 
22 And the son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah, and the sons of Shemaiah were: Hattusch, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six descendants. 
23 And the sons of Neariah were Elioenai, and Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three sons. 
24 And the sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven sons.
