1 Afterward when David dwelt in his house, he said to Nathan the prophet: Behold I dwell in a house of cedar wood, and the ark of the covenant of Yahweh dwells in a tent within curtains. 
2 And Nathan answered David: Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you. 
3 And God spoke to Nathan in the same night with the following words. 
4 Go and tell my servant David, Thus says Yahweh: It is not you who will build for me the house where I will dwell. 
5 For I have not dwelt in a house [that belongs to me] since the day that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt until this day, but I have gone from one tent to another, and from the house of a stranger to another. 
6 And wherever I have walked with all Israel, have I spoken a word to any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to save my people. Have I said: Why have you not build me a house of cedar. 
7 Now therefore you will speak thus to my servant David, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: I have taken you from the sheepfold, where you were following the sheep, and made you a prince over my people Israel. 
8 And I have been with you wherever you have walked, and I have destroyed all your enemies before you, and I have made your name great like the name of the great men who are on the earth. 
9 And now my people Israel possess a home, and I have planted them so that they may dwell in their own place and move no more, and the wicked peoples will no longer trouble them as before. 
10 For I have given you rest from all your enemies [you are not and you will not be subject to their domination and their will], as in the days when I appointed judges over my people Israel. And now Yahweh tells you that he will build a house for you. 
11 For when your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, then I will raise up your descendant after you, one of your sons, and I will establish his kingdom. 
12 And he will build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever. 
13 I will be his father and he will be my son. I will not take away my grace from him, as I withdrew it from the one who preceded you. 
14 But I will establish him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever. 
15 And Nathan told David all these words and all this vision. 
16 Then king David went in [the tent that he had set up for the ark God], and did sit before Yahweh and said: Who am I, O God Yahweh, and what is the importance of my father’s house, so that you have brought me where I am. 
17 And nevertheless all this kindness toward me is a small thing in your eyes, O God. For you have spoken of the house of your servant for the times of a distant future. And you inform a man of this thing, you who dwell in high places, O God Yahweh. 
18 What more can David tell you about this honor that you have done to your servant. For you know your servant, O Yahweh. 
19 For the sake of your servant, and according to your heart, you have done all these great things and you have revealed them. 
20 There is no one like you, O Yahweh, and there is no other God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
21 Is there any nation on earth like your people Israel whom God went to redeem for himself to make them his people and to establish his own name. And for your sake you have done great and terrible things by driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt. 
22 For you have chosen your people Israel to be your own people forever. And you, Yahweh, have become their God. 
23 And now, O Yahweh, confirm forever the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and his house. Act according to what you have spoken [I do not want anything more or less]. 
24 And let your name be established and glorified forever by those who will say: Yahweh the God of armies is the God of Israel, the God of the children of Israel. And let the house of your servant David be established before you. 
25 For you, O my God, you have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house. This is why your servant has had the courage to speak this prayer to you. 
26 For you are God, O Yahweh, and you have declared this good thing to your servant. 
27 Now therefore, it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant so that it may continue forever before you. For you, O Yahweh, have blessed it, and it is blessed forever.
