1 And Satan rose up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel. 
2 Therefore David said to Joab and to the leaders of the people: Go number Israel from Beersheba to Dan, and bring it to me so that I may know how their total. 
3 Joab answered: May Yahweh make his people a hundred times more numerous. But, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants. Why does my lord desire this thing. Why should he cause Israel to sin. 
4 Nevertheless the word of the king prevailed against Joab [because he has the duty to obey the king if the king does not directly disobey the law of Moses without any constraint and without any precedent, and Moses did not forbid this thing]. Therefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel, and came back to Jerusalem. 
5 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to David. And there were eleven hundred thousand men who drew sword in all Israel, and four hundred and seventy thousand men who drew sword in Judah. [These numbers come from an oral tradition because they were not recorded in the archives that were created in those days.] 
6 But Joab did not number Levi and Benjamin among people, because the king's command was an abomination in the eyes of Joab.
7 And God was displeased with this thing. Therefore had smitten Israel. 
8 And David had said to God: I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. And now, I beseech you to forgive the iniquity of your servant. For I have done very foolishly. 
9 And Yahweh had spoken to Gad the seer of David in the following words. 
10 Go and tell to David, Thus says Yahweh: I offer you three things. Choose among them the one that I will do to you. 
11 So Gad had gone to David and said to him, Thus says Yahweh: You have to choose. 
12 Either three years of famine, or three months in which you will be overtaken by the sword of your enemies and destroyed by your adversaries, or three days in which the sword of Yahweh will bring pestilence in the land by the hand of the angel of Yahweh who will cause destruction throughout all the territory of Israel. Consider now what I will answer to the one who sent me.
13 And David had said to Gad: I am in a great anxiety. Let us fall now into the hand of Yahweh because his mercies are immense, and let me not fall into the hand of man. 
14 So Yahweh had sent a pestilence in Israel, and there fell seventy thousand men of Israel. 
15 And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it. And while he was destroying it, Yahweh looked and repented of the evil, and said to the destroying angel: It is sufficient, take away your hand now. And the angel of Yahweh stood near the threshing floor of Ornan [Araunah] the Jebusite. 
16 And David looked up and saw the angel of Yahweh standing between the earth and the heaven, with his sword drawn in his hand and stretched out toward Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel fell on their faces. They had sackcloth on their bodies. 
17 And David said to God: Have I not commanded to number the people. I have sinned and done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done. O Yahweh my God, I pray you to let your hand be on me and my house, but not against your people to destroy them. 
18 Then the angel of Yahweh commanded Gad to speak to David, so that David may go up and build an altar to Yahweh on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
19 And David went up according to the word that Gad had spoken in the name of Yahweh. 
20 And Ornan looked and saw the angel, and he and his four sons hid themselves. For Ornan was threshing wheat. 
21 And when David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David. Then Ornan went out of the threshing floor and bowed himself before David with his face to the ground. 
22 And David said to Ornan: Give me the place of your threshing floor, so that I may build an altar there to Yahweh. Give it to me for its value in money, so that the plague may cease from the people. 
23 And Ornan said to David: Let my lord the king take it and offer whatever seems good to him. And behold, I give you the oxen for the burnt offerings, and the threshing utensils for wood, and the wheat for the meal offering. I give it all. 
24 And king David said to Ornan: Not so, but I will buy it from you for its value in money. For I will not take for Yahweh what is yours, nor offer a burnt offering that costs me nothing. 
25 So David gave six hundred shekels of gold to Ornan in order to obtain that place. 
26 And David built there an altar to Yahweh, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he called on Yahweh, and Yahweh answered him by a fire from heaven which came down on the altar while a burnt offering was there. 
27 And when Yahweh had commanded the angel, he had put his sword back into its sheath. 
28 Now at that time after David had seen that Yahweh had answered him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then it was always there that David came to make his offerings. 
29 But the tabernacle of Yahweh which Moses had built in the wilderness, with the altar of burnt offerings [and of all ordinary offerings], it was in the high place at Gibeon in those days. 
30 And David did not want to go before that altar of Moses to seek God [to perform the commandments given by Moses], because the sword of the angel of Yahweh had terrified him. So David chose to continually do his duty at the new place where he had seen this angel who terrified him.
