1 Afterward Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead. 
2 And David said: I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness towards me. And David sent messengers to comfort Hanun concerning his father. So the servants of David came into the land of the children of Ammon to comfort him. 
3 And the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun: Do you think that David has sent you comforters in order to honor your father. Have not David his servants come to you in order to search the land, and to spy it, and to destroy it. 
4 Therefore Hanun took [he caused to take] David's servants and shaved them, and did cut off [he caused to cut off] their garments in the middle of their buttocks, and sent them away. 
5 And when David heard it, then he sent some men to meet them because those servants of David were exceedingly ashamed. And the king said to them [he caused to say to them]: Stay at Jericho until your beards has grown, and then return. 
6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, then Hanun and the children of Ammon sent one thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from the Syrians of Mesopotamia and from the Syrians of Maacah and Zobah. 
7 And they hired thirty two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people who came and encamped before Medeba. And the children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and went to the battle. 
8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the strong men. 
9 And the children of Ammon went out, and set up their battle in arrays at the gate of the city. And the kings who had come placed themselves apart in the field. 
10 When Joab saw that the battle was set up against him before and behind, then he chose men from all the elite of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. 
11 And he placed the remaining of the people into the hand of his brother Abishai, so that he may put them in array against the children of Ammon. 
12 And Joab said to Abishai: If the Syrians are stronger than I then you will come to succor me, and if the children of Ammon are stronger than you then I will come to succor you. 
13 Be strong and let us be valiant for our people and for the cities of our God, and may Yahweh do what is good in his sight. 
14 Then Joab and the men who were with him went forth against the Syrians to battle, and the Syrians fled before him. 
15 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, then they also fled before Abishai the brother of Joab and entered the city. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem. 
16 And when the Syrians saw that they [their mercenaries] had been defeated by Israel, then they sent messengers and gathered to themselves the Syrians who were beyond the river, and Shophach the captain of the army of Hadarezer went before them. 
17 And when David heard it, then he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and did put himself in arrays against the Syrians. And when David had set the battle in arrays against the Syrians, then they fought with him. 
18 But the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed among the army of the Syrians seven thousand men of chariots and forty thousand foot soldiers. And David also killed Shobach the captain of their army. 
19 And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they fell before Israel, then they made peace with David and served him. And the Syrians no longer wanted to succor the children of Ammon.
