1 When one of you who is a believer has a dispute with another believer, how is it that you go to plead before the unrighteous and not before the saints. [Now Paul explains the message of Jesus Christ with clarity even if he ignores the exact definition of the notion of eternal life of which he has a perfect spiritual knowledge. And Paul considers that an unrighteous person is a person who refuses to believe that Jesus Christ is alive and is the Lord of all righteous persons, or even simply a person to whom it has not yet been announced.] 
2 Do you not know that the saints will judge the world. And if the world will be judged by you, then are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters now. 
3 Do you not know that we will judge angels. We are therefore even more competent concerning the judgments of the things of this life. 
4 When therefore disputes arise among you concerning the things of this life, why should you desire to be judged by those whom the church regards as ignorant. 
5 I say it to your shame. So you are considering that there is no one among you who is wise enough to understand a dispute and give a fair judgment between his brothers. 
6 For a brother is in disagreement with a brother, and they seek judgment from disbelievers. 
7 The very fact that there are disagreements of this nature among you is already a fault [unless one of you has turned away from the faith in Christ and must therefore be excluded from the community]. Why do you not rather suffer some injustice. Why do you not let yourself be stripped instead. 
8 But it is you who commit injustice and who rob, and it is towards your brothers [in the faith in Christ] that you act in this way. 
9 Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. 
10 Do not be deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor the sexually immoral, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, will inherit the kingdom of God. 
11 And such were some of you. But you have been washed, and you have been sanctified, and you have been justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, by the Spirit of our God [that is to say, by the spirit of Jesus Christ]. 
12 Everything is permitted to me [if no one can accuse me of having intentionally harmed someone], but everything is not useful. Everything is permitted to me, but I will not allow myself to be enslaved by anything. 
13 Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food, and God will destroy all these things. But the body is not for fornication: it is for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
14 And God has raised the Lord from the dead, and he will also raise us by his power. [That is to say, we now know that we will be alive in the same form as the Lord Jesus who is currently alive.] 
15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ [since the time when you have become his disciples]. Will I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of a whore. God forbid. 
16 Do you not know that he who join himself to a whore becomes one body with the whore. For it is said: The two will become one flesh. 
17 But he who join himself to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. 
18 Flee fornication. If a man commits any other sin, then that sin is outside the body. But he who commits fornication sins against his own body. 
19 Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, and whom you have received from God [when you have become disciples of Jesus]. 
20 You do not belong to yourselves, since you have been bought with a price [which is the blood of Jesus]. Therefore glorify God in your body.
