1 Brothers, I do not want you to be unaware of the fact that all our fathers were guided by the pillar of cloud, and they all passed through the sea.
2 And they were all [baptized in this way] into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. 
3 And they all ate the same spiritual food. 
4 And they all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that was following them, and that rock was Christ. 
5 But most of them were not pleasing to God, and they have been overthrown in the wilderness. 
6 Now these things that happened are examples for us, so that we should not have evil desires as they did. 
7 Do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and then they got up to entertain themselves. 
8 And let us not commit fornication, as some of them did, and in one day twenty three thousand of them died. 
9 And let us not test the Lord, as some of them did, and were killed by snakes. 
10 And let us not grumble, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel. 
11 Now all these things that happened to them are examples, and they have been written for our instruction, for us on whom the ends of the ages has come. 
12 Therefore, let the one who thinks that he is standing take heed, lest he fall. 
13 No temptation has overtaken you, except such as a man can bear. For God who is faithful will not suffer you to be tempted beyond what you can bear. And when you are tempted, he will also provide you with a way of escape so that you may be able to endure it. 
14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. 
15 I speak like to people who have understanding. Judge for yourselves what I say. 
16 The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a communion with the blood of Christ. The bread that we break, is it not a communion with the body of Christ. 
17 We who are many are one body, as there is one bread. For we all are partakers of one bread. 
18 Consider those who are Israel according to the flesh. Are not those who eat of the sacrifices in a communion with the altar. 
19 What then am I saying. Am I saying that food offered to idols is something, or that an idol is something. [For any form of rituals performed without constraint is a form of idolatry in these days when we have received the knowledge of the gospel of Christ, and this includes the rituals of offerings commanded in the law given by Moses.] 
20 No, but I say that all the offerings that are made without constraint and according a religious ritual are offerings made to demons and not to God. And I do not want you to have communion with demons. [Now Job and Balaam did not belong to the tribes of Israel, and they performed certain voluntary sacrifices in order to draw closer to God. But it is Jesus who made us know who the true God is, and therefore we know now that God does not want to know what a person is doing but only why that person is doing it. God only cares about the knowledge possessed by each person at every moment. Information about the exact knowledge of the true God was created in the world by Jesus of Nazareth, and is spread in the world in a multitude of ways like spoken words or written words, with some people having an imperfect understanding of it but still being influenced by it.] 
21 You cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and of the table of demons. 
22 Should we provoke the Lord to jealousy. Are we stronger than he. 
23 All things are lawful for me [since it is not what I do that is important but only the reasons why I do it], but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful, but not all things edify. 
24 Let no one seek only his own well-being, but also the well-being of the others. 
25 You can eat of any meat that is sold in the meat market, without asking yourself whether God can allow you to eat what other people are accustomed to eating. 
26 For the earth and everything in it belong to the Lord. 
27 If a person who has not believed [in Jesus] invites you to a meal and you are willing to go, then you can eat of whatever is set before you without asking yourself if it can offend God. 
28 But if someone says to you, 'This is a part of an offering sacrificed to certain gods', then do not eat of it, because of the one who has said it to you and because of the conscience. 
29 I am referring here not to your own conscience, but the consciences of all other people who have knowledge of that situation. For the freedom that you have through your knowledge of the Lord does not depend on the judgment of others, but at the same time it consists of not giving others a false understanding of our doctrine. [For those who have a poor understanding of our doctrine may not be able to distinguish between, on the one hand, eating a meal with people whom we love and whom we would like to convert to the true faith, and on the other hand, participating in some ritual to implore the favor of some gods.] 
30 For if the people whom I love and whom I would like to convert to the true faith invite me to a simple meal, and I eat of that meal with gratitude, then why should I be condemned by God for something I am grateful for. 
31 So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do it entirely for the glory of God. 
32 Do not offend the Jews, or the Greeks, or the Church of God. [Now Paul says this thing because the temple built to carry out the rituals of the Jewish law given by Moses has continued to exist throughout his life. That temple will be destroyed a few years after his death, by the Romans who will be punishing a revolt of the Jews who have refused to believe in Jesus.] 
33 In the same way, I also try to please everyone in everything that I do, seeking not only my own benefit but also that of the multitude, so that they may be saved. [That is to say, I try to explain the knowledge of our Lord gently to all those who are still in ignorance, in order to convert those who can be converted. But as I have said previously, you must properly punish anyone who offends someone else without publicly acceptable justification, as I have asked you to deliver to Satan the one who is among you and who has taken the wife of his father. You must even distance yourself from any person who has known the will of the Lord and who subsequently distanced himself from the Lord by his behavior, even if he has not directly offended someone else in a publicly unjustifiable manner.]
