1 As for me, brothers, when I came to you, it is not with superiority of speech or of wisdom that I came to announce to you the testimony of God. 
2 For I did not have the thought to know among you anything other than Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ crucified [that is to say, you have to know that Jesus Christ has been killed because it is through this knowledge that you will put to death your old selves by becoming a disciple of Jesus, and thus you will live a new life for God knowing that Jesus Christ has been raised from the dead and is now alive for God.] 
3 And I myself was with you in a state of weakness, and in fear, and great trembling. 
4 And my speech and my preaching were not in the persuasive words of wisdom, but in a demonstration of the Spirit and of power. 
5 So that your faith may be founded, not on the wisdom of men, but on the power of God. 
6 However, it is wisdom that we preach among those who are perfect. It is a wisdom that is not of this world nor of the leaders of this world, who are going to be destroyed. 
7 We preach the wisdom of God, mysterious and hidden, which God had foreordained before the beginning of the world for our glory. 
8 A wisdom that none of the leaders of this world has known. For if they had known it, then they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. 
9 But as it is written: Things that eye had not seen, and ear had not heard, and which had not entered into the heart of man, things that God had prepared for those who love him. 
10 God has revealed them to us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the deep things of God. 
11 For what man knows the things of a man, except the spirit of man which is in him. Likewise no one knows the things of God, except the Spirit of God. 
12 Now we have not received the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things that God has given us by his grace.
13 And we speak of those things, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with words that the Holy Spirit teaches, using spiritual language for spiritual things. 
14 But the animal man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, because they are madness to him. And he cannot know them, because it is spiritually that one discerns them. 
15 The spiritual man judges all things, and he himself is not condemned with justice by anyone. 
16 For who has known the mind of the Lord [Jesus] to instruct him [if not the Holy Spirit]. And we have the mind of Christ.
