1 Pursue love, but also aspire to spiritual gifts, especially to that of prophecy. 
2 For the one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God. For no one understands him, while he utters mysteries through the Spirit. 
3 But the one who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, and to exhort them, and to comfort them. 
4 The one who speaks in a tongue edifies himself [because even if he does not understand what he is saying himself, at least he is comforted by the fact that he has a special connection with the Spirit]. But the one who prophesies edifies the church. 
5 Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but what I desire even more is that you may prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets so that the church may be edified. 
6 And now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, then how will I be of any use to you. I can only be useful to you if I speak to you by revelation or by knowledge, to give a prophecy to you or to teach you. 
7 If inanimate objects that can be used to make a sound, such as a flute or a harp, do not make distinct sounds, then how will one recognize what is played on the flute or on the harp. 
8 And if the trumpet gives an unclear sound, then who will prepare himself for battle. 
9 So you also, unless you utter intelligible words with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying. For you will be speaking into the air. 
10 There are doubtless many different languages ​​in the world, but none of them consists of speaking without transmitting a message that can be interpreted. 
11 And if I do not understand a particular language, then I will be a barbarian to the speaker, and the speaker will be a barbarian to me. 
12 Likewise, since you are eager for spiritual gifts, seek to excel in what can edify the church. 
13 Therefore let the one who speaks in a tongue pray in order to be able to interpret it. 
14 For if I pray in a tongue, then my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful. 
15 What then will I do. I will pray with the spirit, but I will also pray with the understanding. I will sing with the spirit, but I will also sing with the understanding. 
16 Otherwise, if you give thanks with the spirit, how will someone who listens to me without understanding me say, 'Amen'. Such a person cannot react to your words of praise, because that person does not understand what you are saying. 
17 You will truly be thanking God, but the other person will not be edified. 
18 I thank my God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. 
19 But in the church I would rather speak five words with my understanding, in order to instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue [that is not heard by others]. 
20 Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be babes regarding the planning of malicious acts, but in your thinking be mature. 
21 In the law it is written: I will speak to this people by people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners, but even thus they will not listen to me, says the Lord. [Now this is not written in the law of Moses but in the teachings of the other prophets, more precisely in the book of the prophet Isaiah.] 
22 Therefore tongues are for a sign, not toward believers, but toward unbelievers. And prophecy is for a sign, not toward unbelievers, but toward believers. [That is to say, the gift of being able to speak in different languages ​​allows the believer to arouse the curiosity of those who do not yet believe and to speak with them in their own language. And the gift of prophecy allows the believer to be strengthened in his faith, and to be able to edify other believers, and to be able to effectively convince those who do not yet believe.] 
23 If everyone speaks in tongues in a meeting of the whole church, and there come some persons who do not understand those tongues or who do not yet believe, then will they not say that you are mad. 
24 But if everyone prophesies, and there come someone who does not understand our faith or who does not yet believe, then his sins will be revealed as sins in his eyes, and he will be judged by everything that you say. 
25 The secrets of his will manifest themselves as sins in his own eyes, and he will fall on his face and worship God, and he will declare that God is really among you. [That is to say, if it is a person whom God the Father has destined to know the faith, then that person can thus be saved through you. For a person becomes a believer through the repentance of his own spirit, regarding all the unworthy behaviors that were previously acceptable in his own eyes.] 
26 What then, brothers. When you come together, each of you has either a psalm, or a teaching [concerning an appropriate behavior in a precise situation], or a revelation, or a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification. 
27 If anyone speaks in a tongue, then let there be only two or at most three, each in turn, and let someone interpret. 
28 But if there is no interpreter, then let the one who speaks in a different language keep silent in the church. Let that person speak to himself and to God [that is to say, to God who is inside that person]. 
29 As for the prophets, let two or three speak, and let the others judge what is said. 
30 And if a revelation is given to another who is sitting, then let the first be silent. 
31 For you can all prophesy in turn, so that all may be instructed and all may be encouraged. 
32 The spirits of the prophets are subject to the control of the prophets. 
33 For God is not a God of disorder, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. 
34 Let the women keep silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak. Let them be in submission, as the law also says. [Now there were women prophets among the children of Israel before the birth of Jesus Christ, but the law given by Moses specifies that a woman must be subject to the authority of her father with whom she lives if she is not yet married, or to the authority of her husband if she is married, as is specified in the chapter thirty of the book of Numbers. And Jesus Christ has made it understood that the law given by Moses was a form of pedagogy, and he has revealed the exact identity of the God of Israel, but Paul does not want women to be teachers of the knowledge of God in the assemblies he is creating.] 
35 And if they want to inquire about anything, then let them ask their own husbands at home. For it is improper for a woman to speak in the church. [Now Paul does not want women to be teachers of the knowledge of God in the assemblies that he is creating. And he himself said previously: All things are lawful, but not all things edify.] 
36 What then. Has the word of God originated in your community. Or has it reached only your community. 
37 If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or that he is inspired, then let him recognize that what I am writing to you is the command of the Lord. [Now Paul has written in his epistle to the Romans that whoever loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law. That is to say, the only thing that the Lord asks is to do nothing in a publicly unjustifiable way, and to seek the well-being of others in everything that we do.] 
38 But if someone wants to ignore this particular rule that I have asked to respect, then let him ignore it. 
39 Therefore, brothers, earnestly desire the gift of prophecy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues [that is to say, do not forbid it to those who have that gift if someone can explain what they are saying, as I previously specified.] 
40 But let all things be done decently and in order.
