1 Regard us then as servants of Christ, and as stewards whose job is to teach the knowledge of the mysteries of God. [That is to say, this is what we the apostles are, whether it is me Paul, or Peter, or Apollos, or others.] 
2 Furthermore, what is required of stewards is that every one be found faithful. 
3 As for me, it matters very little whether I am condemned by you or by a human tribunal. And I do not condemn myself either. 
4 For I feel guilty about nothing. But it is not for this reason that I am justified, for the one who judges me is the Lord. 
5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes. For he will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will reveal the purposes of the hearts. Then each person will receive the praise due from God. [Now Paul is asking here not to judge the initiatives of a person if it does not offend someone else in a publicly unjustifiable manner. For even in the law given by Moses there are two kinds of sin: on the one hand there are sins that do not directly offend anyone else and concern rituals established for the service of God, and on the other hand there are sins that cause harm to other persons in a publicly unjustifiable manner.] 
6 Brothers, it is because of you that I have used Apollos and myself as examples to talk about how to consider this kind of situation, so that you can thus learn through our behaviors not to go beyond what is written, and so that none of you may think that there is a division among the apostles when each of them invent his own method to teach Christ to a particular audience according to the grace that he has received. 
7 For who makes distinctions between you. What do you have that you have not received. And if you have received it, then why do you boast as if you had not received it. 
8 And now you have become full [of the knowledge of the truth], and you have become rich [of the knowledge of the truth], and you have begun to reign as kings [in yours nations] without needing us anymore. And my desire is that God make you reign, so that we also may reign with you. [Now Paul is saying that in eternal life, of which he has perfect spiritual knowledge but is ignorant of the exact definition, the success of his disciples will be considered by God as part of his own success.] 
9 But it seems to me that concerning us who are the apostles, God has made us the last of men in this life, as men condemned to die. For we have been made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and men. 
10 We are fools because of Christ, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are honored, but we are despised. 
11 Even to this very hour we suffer hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are mistreated, and have no certain dwelling-place. 
12 We toil, working with our own hands. We blessed when we are reviled, we endure when we are persecuted. 
13 We speak kindly when we are slandered. We have become like the filth of the world, the outcasts of all, until now. 
14 I do not write these things to shame you, but I warn you as my beloved children. [That is to say, I want to warn you of what awaits you if you want to be more than just disciples and become apostles.] 
15 For you are my children. For you may have ten thousand teachers in Christ, but you do not have many fathers, since it is I who have begotten you in Christ Jesus through the gospel. [That is to say, it was my words that gave the knowledge of Christ to those who became your teachers.] 
16 I implore you therefore, be my imitators. 
17 For this reason I have sent Timothy to you. He is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord. He will remind you of my ways in Christ, how I teach everywhere in every church. 
18 Now some of you have become arrogant, as if I was not going to come to you anymore. 
19 But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills. And then I will know the power of those who are arrogant, and not their words. 
20 For the kingdom of God is not in words, but in power. 
21 And now what do you prefer, you who have become arrogant among my children. Do you want me to come to you with a rod to punish you for your arrogance, or with love and gentleness to rejoice in your repentance.
