1 Am I not an apostle. Am I not free. Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord. Are you not my work in the Lord. 
2 If I am not an apostle in the eyes of others, nevertheless I am an apostle in your eyes. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.
3 It is my defense against those who accuse me. 
4 Do we not have the right to eat and drink. 
5 Do we not have the right to marry a woman who is from among the sisters who have become believers through our own teachings, as it has been done by other apostles, and by other brothers in the Lord, and by Cephas. 
6 Or is it only I and Barnabas who have no right to refrain from working. [That is to say, are we the only two who must eat the fruit of our own labor without expecting anything from our disciples.] 
7 Who is the one who serves as a soldier in an army without expecting any compensation from the leaders of that army. Who plants a vineyard without eating its fruits when they become available to him. Who feeds a flock and does not eat of the milk of that flock. 
8 Do I say these things only according to human custom. Does not the law also say the same. 
9 For it is written in the Law of Moses, 'You will not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain'. Is God telling us this thing because he feels sorry for the oxen. 
10 Or does he speak entirely for our sake. Yes, it was written for our sake, so that the one who plows should plow with hope, and the one who threshes should thresh with the hope of having a share in it. 
11 If we have sown spiritual things among you, then is it a great matter if we reap material things from you. 
12 If others enjoy this right over you, then do we not have more reason to be able to enjoy it. Nevertheless we have not used this right. On the contrary, we endure everything so as to cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. [That is to say, we do not want you to misinterpret our deeds while we are teaching you the knowledge of Christ.] 
13 Do you not know that those who perform sacred duties eat of the things of the temple, and that those who serve at the altar have a portion with the altar. 
14 In the same way, the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live of the gospel. 
15 But I have not used any of these rights, and I am not writing these things in order to get something for myself. For I would rather die than have this subject of glory taken away from me. 
16 For I have nothing to boast about when I preach the gospel, since I have received the order to preach it, and woe is me if I do not preach the gospel.
17 If I do it willingly, then I have a personal reward through my good will. But if I do it unwillingly, then I am only obeying an order and I do not seek any personal initiative that is admirable through this obedience of an order. 
18 What then is my reward. it is the fact that I ask nothing in return from those to whom I preach the gospel of Christ, so as not to use my rights as a preacher of the gospel. 
19 For although I am free from all men, I have made myself the servant of all, in order to gain as many people as possible. 
20 With the Jews I have acted like a Jew, in order to gain the Jews. With those who are under the law [given by Moses], I have acted like someone who is under the law [given by Moses], although I myself am not under the law [given by Moses], so that I may gain those who are under the law [given by Moses]. 
21 With those who are without the law [given by Moses], I have acted like someone who is without the law [given by Moses], although I myself am not without law before God since I am under the law of Christ, so that I may gain those who are without the law [given by Moses]. 
22 With those who are weak, I have acted like someone who is weak, so that I may gain the weak. I have become all things to all people, so that by all possible means I may save some. 
23 I do all things for the sake of the gospel, so that I may have a portion in its blessings. 
24 Do you not know that those who run in a race are all running, but only one receives the best prize. Run in such a way as to obtain the best prize. 
25 Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. And they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we do it to obtain an incorruptible crown.  
26 Therefore I do not run like someone running uncertainly. I do not fight like a boxer beating the air to train himself, but like a boxer who is hitting something. 
27 And I treat my body harshly and keep it submissive, lest I myself be rejected after having preached to others. [Now Ezekiel had said, 'The righteous person will not live through his righteousness in the day that he sins', that is to say, God will construct future events to gradually give little importance to his works of justice.]
