1 Concerning the things about which you have written to me, I think that it is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
2 However, to avoid fornications, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. 
3 Let the husband give to his wife due benevolence, and let the wife do the same to her husband. 
4 The wife does not have authority over her own body, because it is for her husband. And likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body because it is for his wife. 
5 Do not deprive yourselves of each other. You can do it by agreement for a time so that each of you may have the opportunity to step away from the other to pray, but you have to reconnect to each other after that lest Satan tempt you by your incontinence. [That is to say, you must always have the opportunity to consult together if there is any need, except when each of you takes the time to pray to God with the aim of receiving the strength to remain attached to the Holy Spirit which is individual, since sin is individual.] 
6 I have said this thing only to give you permission to be separated for a time. It is not a rule. 
7 I wish that all men were as I am. But each person has a special gift from God, one person in this way, and another person in another way. 
8 Therefore I say to the unmarried and to the widows that it is good for them to remain as I am. 
9 But if they cannot control themselves, then let them marry. For it is better to marry than to burn. 
10 I give the following command to those who are married, and it is not from me but from the Lord: Let not the wife separate from her husband. 
11 And if she separates from him, then let her remain unmarried or let her reconcile with him. And let not the husband divorce his wife. 
12 And I say the following thing to the others [that is to say, to those who are not married], and it is from me and not from the Lord: If a brother has a wife who does not believe [in Jesus], if such a woman has consented to live with him, then he should not forsake her [that is to say, he can marry her]. [Now Paul says this thing because of how he defines a person who is a believer. To be a believer according to the definition of Paul, one must believe that Jesus died for the sins of mankind and was raised from the dead for our justification, and that one must seek to obey the vague holy commandment which simply says to love one’s neighbor as oneself, in order to access an eternal life of which even Paul is unaware of the exact definition even if he has a good spiritual understanding of it and knows that Jesus is currently there at the right hand of the Father, and that there is no other God in the world except the God of Jesus. The disbelievers of whom Paul speaks here are those who may not accept the accuracy of all aspects of this definition of faith given by Paul, but who are not driven by a desire to harm others without possessing certain justifications in their hearts.] 
13 And if a woman has a husband who does not believe [in Jesus], if such a man has consented to live with her, then she should not forsake him [that is to say, she can marry him]. 
14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. 
15 But if the unbeliever spouse departs, then let that spouse depart. The brother or the sister is not bound in such case, for God has called us to live in peace. 
16 For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband or not. Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife or not. 
17 Only let each person walk as the Lord has assigned him, as he has been called by God. This is what I command in all the churches. 
18 If anyone has been called while being circumcised, then let him not become uncircumcised. And if anyone has been called while being uncircumcised, then let him not be circumcised. 
19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of God is everything. 
20 Let each person remain in the same vocation in which he has been called. 
21 Have you been called while being a slave. Do not worry. But if you can become free, then take advantage of it. 
22 For the one who is called in the Lord while being a slave is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise, the one who is called while being free is a slave of Christ. 
23 You have been bought with a price [which is the blood of Jesus]. Do not be a slave of men anymore. [That is to say, if you become a servant of Christ then you are no longer serving certain people in particular or even only your own person. Your only goal is to have a certain usefulness for arbitrarily chosen strangers in society, and you know that you are free to use any means to achieve this goal, and your only constraint is not to harm anyone in a publicly unjustifiable way.] 
24 Brothers, let each person remain before God with the same vocation that he had when he has been called. 
25 Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord. But I will give my advice, as someone who have received mercy from the Lord to be faithful. 
26 This then is what I consider good, because of the difficult times which are approaching: It is good for a person to stay as he is. 
27 If you are bound to a wife, then do not seek to break that bond. And if you are not bound to a wife, then do not seek a wife. 
28 If you marry, then you do not commit sin. And if a virgin marries, then she does not commit sin. But these people will have tribulations in the flesh, and I want you to be free from it. 
29 Brothers, what I say is that the time is short, and that from now on those who have wives should be as if they had none. [That is to say, if you have a spouse then you are one flesh but you are two spirits. You must love your spouse as you love yourself, but you must live for Christ and not for your spouse. Your goal in life must be to serve Christ and not to serve your spouse.] 
30 And those who weep should be as if they are not weeping, and those who rejoice should be as if they are not rejoicing, and those who buy should be as if they are not possessing. [That is to say, everything that you do must be, in your own eyes, a useful means to achieve the unique goal which is to serve Christ. You must constantly have in mind the desire to serve Christ.] 
31 And those who use the things of this world should be as if they are not using it [that is to say, they must consider that it is simply a means of achieving a certain goal that must please Christ]. For the appearances of this world will disappear. 
32 And I do not want you to be worried. He who is not married worries about the things of the Lord, about ways to please the Lord. 
33 And he who is married worries about the things of the world, about the means of pleasing his wife. 
34 There is also a difference between a wife and a virgin [who are among the believers]. She who is unmarried cares about the things of the Lord, in order to be holy both in body and in spirit. But she who is married worries about the things of the world, about ways to please her husband. 
35 I say this for your benefit, it is not to trap you. It is to lead you to what is suitable, so that you may cling to the Lord without distraction. 
36 If anyone considers it dishonorable for his daughter to exceed marriageable age, and if he thinks that it is necessary to marry her to someone, then let him do what he wants, he does not sin. Let them marry. 
37 But he who has made a firm decision in his heart, without constraint and with the power of his own will, and who has decided in his heart to keep his daughter a virgin, he does well. 
38 So then, he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage does better. [Now Paul says this thing to those who are disciples of Christ.] 
39 The wife who is already a believer is bound [by the law of Christ] as long as her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, then she is free to marry whoever she wants. And whatever she does, she must do it with the intention of pleasing the Lord. 
40 But my opinion is that she is happier if she remains as she is, and I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
