1 It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such a fornication which is not even found among the Gentiles, to such an extent that one of you has the wife of his father. 
2 And you are proud of yourself, instead of feeling indignation and driving out from among you the one who has done such a thing. 
3 As for me, being absent in body but present in spirit, I have already judged the one who has committed such a deed as if I were present. 
4 I declare the following thing in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, my spirit joining your assembly by the power of our Lord Jesus. 
5 Let such a man be delivered to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
6 You are wrongly boasting [that is to say, concerning those of you who are very proud to now be able to teach the true faith to the ignorant]. Do you not know that a little leaven makes the whole dough rise. 
7 Make the old leaven disappear, so that you may be a new dough, since you are without leaven. For our Passover, which is Christ [Jesus], has been sacrificed for us. 
8 Let us therefore celebrate the feast, not with old leaven, not with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. [That is to say, let us celebrate daily the life according to the flesh and the resurrection according to the spirit of Jesus of Nazareth who is our Passover. And let us not invent any rituals for this celebration, but let us eliminate from our hearts all kinds of wickedness and idolatry in order to carry out the celebration with the purity of sincerity and truth. Now Paul said at the beginning of this letter: We speak of those things, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with words that the Holy Spirit teaches, using spiritual language for spiritual things.] 
9 I wrote to you in my letter to have no company with fornicators. 
10 Not in an absolute way with the fornicators of this world, or with the greedy and the extortioners, or with the idolaters. Otherwise, you will have to go out of the world.  
11 Now what I have written to you, it is not to have company with anyone who, calling himself a brother, is a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, and not even to eat with such a man. 
12 For what do I have to do with judging those who are outside of my community of believers. Is it not those who are inside your community of believers that you must judge. 
13 Concerning those who are outside my community of believers, I must leave it to God alone to judge them. Remove the wicked person from among you.
