1 And Elijah the Tishbite who was of the inhabitants of Gilead said to Ahab: As Yahweh the God of Israel is alive, the one before whom I stand, there will be neither dew nor rain these years except according to my word. 
2 And the word of Yahweh came to Elijah with the following words. 
3 Go away from here, and turn toward the east, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith which is opposite the Jordan. 
4 And you will drink of the water of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there. 
5 So Elijah went and did according to the word of Yahweh. For he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith which is opposite the Jordan. 
6 And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank of the water of the brook. 
7 And the brook dried up after a while, because there had been no rain in the land. 
8 Then the word of Yahweh came to Elijah with the following words. 
9 Arise and go to Zarephath which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain you. 
10 So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold the widow woman was there gathering firewood. And he called her and said: I pray you, bring me a little water in a vessel so that I may drink. 
11 And while she was going to take it, he called her again and said: I pray you, bring me also a morsel of bread in your hand. 
12 And she said: As Yahweh your God is alive, I have nothing cooked. And I only have a handful of flour in a jar and some oil in a cruse. And behold, I was gathering few sticks for a fire, in order to go in and make a meal for myself and for my son. And we will eat, and afterward we will die. 
13 And Elijah said to her: Do not be afraid. Go and do as you have said, but make first a little cake for me with a part of what you have and bring it to me. And afterward you will cook for you and for your son. 
14 For thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: The flour in the jar will not fail, and the oil in the cruse will not diminish, until the day when Yahweh sends rain on the land. 
15 So she went and did according to the word of Elijah. And she had enough to eat for a certain time, she, and her household, and Elijah. 
16 And the flour in the jar did not fail, and the oil in the cruse did not diminish, according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke by the hand of Elijah. 
17 And after these things, the son of the wife of the house [namely the widow woman] became sick, and his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. 
18 And the woman said to Elijah: What have I done to you, you the man of God. Have you come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son. 
19 And he said to her, Give me your son. And he took him out of her breast, and carried him up to the upper room where he had his place, and laid him on his own bed. 
20 Then he called to Yahweh and said: O Yahweh my God, will you afflict this widow with whom I have been a guest, by killing her son. 
21 And he stretched himself on the child three times, and called to Yahweh and said: I pray you, O Yahweh my God, to let the soul of this child come into him again. 
22 And Yahweh listened to the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came into him again, and he was revived. 
23 And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the upper room into the house, and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said: Behold your son is alive. 
24 And the woman said to Elijah: Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of Yahweh in your mouth is truth.
