1 And there was no war between Syria and Israel during two years. 
2 And in the third year, Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went down to Ahab the king of Israel. 
3 And the king of Israel said to his servants: Do you know that Ramoth-gilead is ours. And we do nothing to take it out of the hand of the king of Syria. 
4 And he said to Jehoshaphat, Do you want to come with me to fight against Ramoth-gilead. And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel: I am like you are, and my people is like your people, and my horses are like your horses. 
5 Then Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel: Consult now the word of Yahweh, I pray you. 
6 Then Ahab king of Israel assembled four hundred men of the prophets and said to them, Can I go to fight against Ramoth-gilead or should I refrain. And they replied: Go, because Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the king. 
7 But Jehoshaphat said: Is there not another prophet of Yahweh here [who is not part of this company of men having the same habits], so that we may also inquire of him. 
8 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah: There remains one man by whom we can consult Yahweh, Micaiah the son of Imlah. But I hate him, because he does not prophesy good to me but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let the king not speak thus. 
9 Then Ahab king of Israel called an eunuch and said: Bring Micaiah the son of Imlah here quickly.
10 And Ahab the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were each sitting on his throne and clothed with his apparel, in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets were prophesying before them. 
11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made iron horns and said, Thus speaks Yahweh: With these horns you will smite the Syrians until you have destroyed them. 
12 And all the prophets prophesied the same by saying: Go to Ramoth-gilead and you will succeed, for Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the king. 
13 And the messenger who had gone to call Micaiah spoke to him by saying: Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good to the king as with one mouth. Therefore let your word be like the word of one of them, I pray you. Say good things. 
14 And Micaiah replied: As Yahweh is alive, I will announce what Yahweh will tell me. 
15 And Micaiah came to the king, and the king said to him: Micaiah, can we go to fight against Ramoth-gilead or should we forbear. And Micaiah replied: Go and you will succeed, for Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the king. 
16 And the king said to Micaiah: How many times will I urge you to tell me only the real words of Yahweh. 
17 Then Micaiah said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains like sheep that had no shepherd. And Yahweh said: These people have no master, let every man return to his house in peace. 
18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: Have I not told you that he prophesies not good things for me, but evil. 
19 And Micaiah said: Listen therefore to the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on his throne, and the whole army of the heavens standing before him on his right hand and on his left. 
20 And Yahweh said, Who will entice Ahab so that he may go and perish at Ramoth-gilead. And one answered on one manner, and another answered on another manner. 
21 Then a spirit came forth and stood before Yahweh, and said: I will entice him. And Yahweh said, How will you do.
22 And he answered, I will go out and I will be a spirit of lie in the mouth of all his prophets. And Yahweh said: You will entice him and you will also prevail. Go now and do so. 
23 Now therefore behold, Yahweh has put a spirit of lie in the mouth of all these prophets who have come to you. And Yahweh has pronounced the evil against you. 
24 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said: When did the spirit of Yahweh come out of me to speak by you. 
25 And Micaiah said: Behold you will see [the real plans of Yahweh] on that day that when you will go from room to room to hide yourself. 
26 And the king of Israel said: Take Micaiah, and carry him to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the son of the king. 
27 And you will say, Thus speaks the king: Put this man in the prison house, and feed him with bread of affliction, and with water of affliction, until I come back in peace. 
28 And Micaiah said: If you come back in peace then Yahweh has not spoken by me. And Micaiah said again: You all the people here, hear. 
29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead. 
30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: I will disguise myself to go into the battle, but you will put on your apparel. And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. 
31 Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty two captains who were over his chariots by saying: You will not attack the small or the great, but you will only attack the king of Israel. 
32 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, 'Surely it is the king of Israel'. So they turned aside to attack him, and Jehoshaphat cried out. 
33 And when the captains of the chariots saw that he was not the king of Israel, then they ceased to pursue him and turned back. 
34 Then a soldier mightily shot an arrow at random, and it happened that the arrow smote the king of Israel between the joints of his brigandine [his armor]. Therefore the king said to the driver of his chariot: Turn your hand and carry me out of the battlefield, because I am wounded. 
35 And the battle became fierce on that day, and the king stayed in his chariot opposite the Syrians, and his blood ran out of the wound to the floor of the chariot, and the king died in the evening. 
36 And at the sunset there was a proclamation throughout the camp [of Israel] that was saying: Every man to his city, and every man to his portion of land. 
37 Thus died the king, and he was brought back to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria. 
38 And they washed the chariot at the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked the blood of Ahab according to the word of Yahweh which he had spoken, and also the prostitutes bathed there. 
39 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Ahab and all that he did, and the ivory house which he built, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
41 And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
42 And Jehoshaphat was thirty five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
43 And he walked in all the way of Asa his father. He did not turn aside from it, but he did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh. Nevertheless the high places had not disappeared, and the people still offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places. 
44 And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. 
45 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his worthy deeds that he did, and his battles which he fought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
46 And he sent away from the land the remaining of the Sodomites who had been there in the days of his father. 
47 And there was no king in Edom at that time, but a governor [who was chosen by the king of Judah] was king. 
48 And Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold. But they went not, because the ships were broken at Ezion-geber. 
49 Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat did not want. 
50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 
51 And Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah. And he reigned two years over Israel.
52 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
53 For he served Baal and worshiped him, and he provoked Yahweh the God of Israel according to all that his father had done.
