1 Now king Solomon had loved many foreign women among whom was the daughter of Pharaoh and also women from the Moabites, and the Ammonites, and  the Edomites, and the Sidonians, and the Hittites. 
2 So they were among the women of the nations of which Yahweh had said to the children of Israel, You will not desire them because they will surely turn your hearts to their gods. Nevertheless, I say, Solomon united with those women because of love. 
3 And he had seven hundred wives who were princesses in their nations, and also three hundred concubines. And his wives turned away his heart. 
4 For the wives of Solomon turned his heart to other gods when he was old, and his heart was no longer perfect with Yahweh his God as had been the heart of David his father.
5 For Solomon followed Ashtoreth the god of the Sidonians, and Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. 
6 So Solomon did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh, for he did not continue to follow Yahweh as his father David had done. 
7 And Solomon built a high place on the mountain opposite Jerusalem for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon. 
8 And he did thus for all of his foreign wives who burned incense and made offerings to their gods. 
9 Therefore Yahweh was angry with Solomon, because Solomon had turned away his heart from Yahweh the God of Israel who had appeared to him twice.
10 For Yahweh had warned Solomon of the consequences in order to prevent him from following other gods. But Solomon did not keep what Yahweh had commanded. 
11 Therefore Yahweh said to Solomon: Because you have done this thing, and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes which I commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you and I will give it to your servant. 
12 However I will not do it during your life because of David your father, but I will snatch it from the hand of your son. 
13 And I will not take the whole kingdom from you, but I will give one tribe to your son because of my servant David and because of Jerusalem which I have chosen. 
14 Then Yahweh raised up an adversary to Solomon namely Hadad the Edomite who was of the royal family of Edom. 
15 For when David had fought against Edom, Joab the captain of the army buried there his dead soldiers and killed all the males who were in Edom. 
16 And Joab and the army of Israel stayed there six months until he had destroyed all the males in Edom. 
17 And Hadad had fled to Egypt at that time with some Edomites who were among his father's servants. And Hadad was still a little child. 
18 So they had gone to Midian, and from there they went to Paran, and they took with them some men from Paran and came in Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh gave Hadad a house, and a portion of land, and food to eat. 
19 So Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, and Pharaoh gave him the sister of his own wife, namely the sister of Tahpenes the queen. 
20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house. And Genubath was in the house of Pharaoh among the sons of Pharaoh. 
21 And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab the captain of the army was dead, then he said to Pharaoh: Let me go to my own country. 
22 And Pharaoh said to him, What do you lack with me so that you desire to go to your own country. And he answered: Nothing, but let me go. 
23 And God raised up another adversary to Solomon namely Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master Hadadezer the king of Zobah. 
24 When David massacred the army of Zobah, Rezon had gathered men with him and was a captain of a company. And they went to Damascus and dwelt there, and they made Rezon king in Damascus. 
25 And Rezon was an enemy of Israel throughout Solomon's life, besides the trouble that Hadad caused. And he had Israel in aversion, and he reigned over Syria. 
26 And also Jeroboam the servant of Solomon raised his hand against the king. He was the son of Nebat an Ephraimite of Zeredah, and his mother was a widow named Zeruah.
27 And here is the reason why he raised his hand against the king. Solomon built Millo, and repaired the broken places of the city of David his father. 
28 And Jeroboam was strong and valiant, and Solomon made him the supervisor over all the workers from the house of Joseph when Solomon had seen that the young man was skilled. 
29 And when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem at that time, the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way. And Ahijah was wearing a new coat, and there was no one else in the field with them. 
30 Then Ahijah took the new coat that he had on him, and tore it into twelve pieces. 
31 And Ahijah said to Jeroboam, Take ten of the pieces. For thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Behold I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and I will give you ten tribes. 
32 But he will have one tribe because of my servant David, and because of Jerusalem the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. 
33 For he has forsaken me and has worshiped Ashtoreth the god of the Sidonians, and Chemosh god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites. For he has not walked in my ways to do what is right in my eyes, he has not kept my statutes and my ordinances as had done David his father. 
34 However I will not take the kingdom out of his hand during his life. For I will maintain him prince all the days of his life because of my servant David whom I have chosen and who had kept my commandments and my statutes. 
35 But I will take the kingdom from the hand of his son, and I will give you ten of the tribes. 
36 And I will give one tribe to his son, so that my servant David may always have a light before me in Jerusalem which is the city that I have chosen to put my name there. 
37 And I will take you, and you will reign according to all that your soul desire, and you will be king of Israel. 
38 And if you obey everything that I command you, and if you walk in my ways by doing what is right in my sight to keep my statutes and my commandments as my servant David had done, then I will be with you and I will build you a stable house as I have built one for David, and I will give you Israel. 
39 And I will afflict the descendants of David because of what Solomon has done, but it will not be forever.
40 And Solomon [who heard of it directly or indirectly from one of these two persons who were alone in the field] sought to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam got up and fled into Egypt to Shishak the king of Egypt, and he stayed in Egypt until the death of Solomon. 
41 Now the other words of Solomon and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon. 
42 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 
43 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.
