1 Afterward Solomon established good relations with Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and he took the daughter of Pharaoh to wife. And he brought her in the city of David [but not in the house of David] until he had finished the building of his house, and of the house of Yahweh, and of the surrounding wall of Jerusalem. 
2 And the people sacrificed in the high places until that time, because there was no house built for the name of Yahweh. 
3 And Solomon loved Yahweh and followed the habits of David his father. Only it was in the high places that he sacrificed and burned incense. 
4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, because it was the main of the high place [at that time]. And Solomon offered one thousand burnt offerings on that altar. 
5 And Yahweh appeared to Solomon in a dream of the night at Gibeon. And God said to him: Ask what you want me to give you. 
6 And Solomon replied: You have shown a great lovingkindness to your servant David my father because he walked before you in truth, and in justice, and in the uprightness of heart toward you. And you have kept for him this great lovingkindness, for you have given him a son to sit on his throne as it appeared today. 
7 And now, O Yahweh my God, you have made your servant king instead of David my father. But I am still a young man and I have no experience. 
8 And your servant is in the midst of your people which you have chosen, an immense people that cannot be counted because of its multitude. 
9 Therefore give to your servant an intelligent heart to judge your people, so that he may discern between good of evil. For who is able to judge this numerous people.
10 And it pleased Yahweh that Solomon had desired this thing. 
11 And God said to him: Because you have asked this thing, and you have not asked for yourself a long life, or riches, or the death of your enemies. Because you have asked for intelligence to discern justice. 
12 Behold I will do according to your word, and I will give you a wise and intelligent heart so that there was no one like you before you and there will never be anyone like you after you. 
13 And I will also give you what you have not asked for, both riches and honor, so that there will be none like you among the kings during all your days. 
14 And if you walk in my ways and keep my ordinances and my commandments as your father David had done, then I will lengthen your days. 
15 And Solomon awoke and behold, it was a dream in which he had spoken with God. And Solomon returned to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. And he offered burnt offerings and peace offerings [there in Jerusalem], and he made a feast to all his servants. 
16 Then two women who were prostitutes came to the king and stood before him. 
17 And one of the women said: Oh my lord, I and this woman dwell in the same house and I have given birth near her in the house. 
18 And three days later, this woman also gave birth and we were together in the house. No stranger was with us in the house, there were only the two of us. 
19 And the son of this woman died in the night, because he was under her while she slept. 
20 And she got up in the middle of the night, and took my son from my side while your handmaid slept. And she put my son in her bosom, and she put her dead son in my bosom. 
21 And when I got up in the morning to breastfeed my son, behold he was dead. And when I looked at him meticulously in the morning, behold he was not my son whom I had given birth to. 
22 Then the other woman said, It is not so, for the living child is my son and the dead child is your son. But the first woman replied, It is not so, for your son is dead and it is my son who is alive. This is how they spoke before the king. 
23 Then the king said: The first says, it is my son who is alive and it is your son who is the dead. And the second says, No but the dead is your son and the living is my son. 
24 Then the king said, Bring me a sword. So they brought a sword before the king. 
25 And the king said: Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other. 
26 Then the woman whose son was alive felt her bowels moved for her son, and she said to the king, Oh my lord, give her the living child and do not make him die. But the other said: He will neither be mine nor yours, let him be divided. 
27 Then the king answered and said: Do not kill the living child but give him to the first woman, for she is his mother [the one who loves him]. 
28 And all Israel heard the judgment that the king had done, and they feared the king because they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice.
