1 When Solomon had finished the building of the house of Yahweh, and the king's house, and all that he wanted to build. 
2 Then Yahweh appeared to Solomon the second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon. 
3 And Yahweh said to him: I have heard your prayer and your supplication that you have made before me. Concerning this house that you have built, I have sanctified it to put my name there forever and I will always have my eyes and my heart there. 
4 And if you walk before me as your father David walked with a pure heart and in righteousness. And if you do all that I have commanded you by keeping my statutes and my judgments. 
5 Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom on Israel forever, as I promised to David your father by saying: You will always have a successor [among your children] on the throne of Israel. 
6 But if you and your children turn away from me by not keeping my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, if you serve other gods and worship them. 
7 Then I will send away Israel from the land that I have given them, and I will abandon the house that I have sanctified for my name. And Israel will be a proverb and a subject of mockery among all peoples. 
8 And despite the fact that this house will have been exalted, whoever will come there at that time will be amazed and will whistle. And they will say: Why has Yahweh done thus to this land and to this house. 
9 And they will answer: Because they have forsaken Yahweh their God who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt. For they have gone to other gods to worship them and serve them, this is why Yahweh has brought all these evil on them. 
10 At the end of twenty years [after the start of the construction], Solomon had built the two houses namely the house of Yahweh and the house of the king. 
11 And Hiram the king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with timber of cedar, and with fir trees, and with gold, according to all that Solomon had desired. Therefore king Solomon gave to Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. 
12 And Hiram went out of Tyre to see the cities that Solomon had given him, and they did not please him. 
13 Therefore Hiram said, How are these cities that you have given me, my brother. And he called them the land of Cabul, and it has been their name to this day. 
14 And Hiram had sent to king Solomon one hundred and twenty talents of gold. 
15 And this is the reason why king Solomon levied a tribute. It was to build the house of Yahweh, and his own house, and Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer. 
16 Pharaoh the king of Egypt had gone up and taken Gezer, and burned it with fire, and killed the Canaanites who dwelt in the city. And he had given it for a gift to his daughter the wife of Solomon. 
17 And Solomon built Gezer, and Beth-horon the nether. 
18 And Baalath, and Tamar in the wilderness of the land. 
19 And all the cities serving as stores that Solomon had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
20 Now there has always been peoples in the land who were of the Amorites, and of the Hittites, and of the Perizzites, and of the Hivites, and of the Jebusites. These peoples were not of the children of Israel. 
21 And the children of Israel were not able to destroy their descendants who had remained after them in the land. It is from them that Solomon raised up a legion of servants for the hard work, and they have served in this manner to this day. 
22 And Solomon did not use the children of Israel for hard physical work. For they were the men of war, and his servants [to interact amicably with other kingdoms], and his princes, and his captains, and the commanders of his chariots, and his horsemen.
23 And the chief officers who were over Solomon's projects were five hundred and fifty. They ruled the people who performed the work. 
24 And Pharaoh's daughter came up from the city of David to her house which Solomon had built for her. And Solomon built Millo after that. 
25 When he had finished the house, Solomon offered [he caused to offer] three times each year burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar that he had built for Yahweh, and he burned [he caused to burn] incense on the altar that was before Yahweh.
26 And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Ezion-geber which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the red sea in the land of Edom. 
27 And Hiram sent his servants who had knowledge of the sea in that navy, to accompany the servants of Solomon. 
28 And they went to Ophir, and they took there four hundred and twenty talents of gold which they brought to king Solomon.
