1 And king Solomon was king over all Israel. 
2 And these are the princes whom Solomon had at his service. Azariah the son of Zadok the priest. 
3 And Elihoreph and Ahijah the sons of Shisha, they were scribes. And Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the archivist. 
4 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada commanded the army. And Zadok and Abiathar [another with the same name] were priests. 
5 And Azariah the son of Nathan was chief of the officers. And Zabud the son of Nathan was a priest and the friend of king Solomon. 
6 And Ahishar was over the king's household. And Adoniram the son of Abda was over the tribute. 
7 And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel who provided food and drink for the king and his household, and each of them had a month of the year during which he gave the provision. 
8 And these are their names: the son of Hur in the mount Ephraim. 
9 And the son of Deker in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and in Beth-shemesh, and in Elon, and in Beth-hanan. 
10 And the son of Hesed in Arubboth, and in Socoh and in the whole land of Hepher. 
11 And the son of Abinadab in the whole region of Dor. He had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife. 
12 And Baana the son of Ahilud in Taanach, and in Megiddo, and in all Beth-shean which is near Zarethan beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah and beyond Jokmeam. 
13 And the son of Geber in Ramoth of Gilead, and in the towns of Jair the son [from the families] of Manasseh in Gilead, and in the region of Argob in Bashan where there were sixty great cities with walls and bars of brass. 
14 And Ahinadab the son of Iddo in Mahanaim. 
15 And Ahimaaz in Naphtali. He took Basemath the daughter of Solomon to wife. 
16 And Baana the son of Hushai in Asher and Bealoth. 
17 And Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah in Issachar. 
18 And Shimei the son of Ela in Benjamin. 
19 And Geber the son of Uri in the land of Gilead which had been the country of Sihon the king of the Amorites and of Og the king of Bashan. Geber was the only officer for that land. 
20 Judah and Israel were numerous like the sand on the seashore in multitude, and they were merry and had plenty to eat and to drink. 
21 And Solomon reigned over all the kingdoms from the great river to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt. And they brought gifts, and they obeyed Solomon during all the days of his life. 
22 And Solomon's provision for one day were thirty measures of fine flour and sixty measures of meal. 
23 And ten fattened oxen, and twenty oxen of the pastures, and one hundred sheep. And also harts, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fattened poultry. 
24 For he ruled over all the region on this side of the great river, from Tiphsah to Gaza, over all the kings on this side of the great river. And he had peace on all sides around him. 
25 And Judah and Israel dwelt in safety from Dan to Beersheba during all the days of Solomon, each man under his vine and under his fig tree. 
26 And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. 
27 And the twelve officers provided food and drink for king Solomon and for all those who came to king's table. Each of them provided during his month, and they did not let anything lacking. 
28 And those officers also brought barley and straw for the horses and the mules at the places where it was needed, each according to the orders he had received. 
29 And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceedingly, and a large heart as the sand that is on the seashore. 
30 And the wisdom of Solomon surpassed the wisdom of all the sons of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
31 For he was wiser than any man, more than Ethan the Ezrahite, and more than Heman and Calcol and Darda the sons of Mahol. And he was famous throughout all the nations around. 
32 And Solomon spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs were one thousand and five. 
33 And he spoke of the trees, from the cedar of Lebanon to the hyssop that springs out of the wall. He also spoke about the beasts, and the birds, and the creeping things, and the fishes. 
34 And people from all nations came to hear the wisdom of Solomon, people from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom.
