1 And Behold, a man of God came from Judah at Bethel by the word of Yahweh. And Jeroboam was standing near the altar to burn incense. 
2 And he cried out against the altar by the word of Yahweh and said, O altar, altar, thus says Yahweh: Behold a child will be born in the house of David. His name will be Josiah, and he will offer on you the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and men's bones will be burned on you. 
3 And the same day he gave a sign by saying, This is the sign that Yahweh has spoken: Behold the altar will be split, and the ashes that are on it will be poured out. 
4 And when the king Jeroboam had heard the word of the man of God which he had cried against the altar of Bethel, then Jeroboam stretched out his hand from the altar and said, Take hold of him. And the hand that Jeroboam put forth against him became dry, and he could not bring it back to himself. 
5 And the altar also split, and the ashes that were on it poured out according to the sign that the man of God had given by the word of Yahweh. 
6 Then the king spoke to the man of God by saying, I beseech you, pray to Yahweh your God and intercede for me so that he may restore my hand. And the man of God entreated Yahweh, and the king's hand was restored and became as it was before. 
7 Then the king said to the man of God: Come with me to my house. And you will refresh yourself, and I will give you a gift. 
8 But the man of God said to the king: Even if you give me the half of your house, I will not go in with you. And I will not eat bread nor drink water in this place. 
9 For this command was given to me by the word of Yahweh: You will not eat bread nor drink water, and you will not come back by the path on which you have gone. 
10 And he departed by another path, and he did not go by the path on which he had come to Bethel. 
11 Now there was an old prophet who dwelt in Bethel, and his sons came and told him all the things that the man of God had done in that day at Bethel. And they also told their father the words that the man had spoken to the king. 
12 And their father said to them, By what path did he go. And his sons showed him the path by which had gone the man of God who had come from Judah. 
13 And he said to his sons, Saddle the donkey for me. And they saddled the donkey for him, and he rode on it. 
14 And he went after the man of God, and found him sitting under a terebinth tree. He said to him: Are you the man of God who came from Judah. And he replied: I am. 
15 Then he said to him, Come with me to my house, and I will give you some food. 
16 But the man of God answered: I cannot return with you, nor enter your house. And I will neither eat bread nor drink water with you in this place. 
17 For it was said to me by the word of Yahweh: You will not eat bread and you will not drink water there, and you will not come back by the path on which you have gone. 
18 And he said to him: I am also a prophet like you, and an angel spoke to me by the word of Yahweh and said, Bring him back with you into your house, that he may eat bread and drink water. Now the old prophet was lying to the man of God. 
19 Then the man of God went back with him, and ate bread in the old prophet’s house and drank water. 
20 And while they were still sitting at the table, the word of Yahweh came to the old prophet who had brought back the man of God. 
21 And he cried out to the man of God who had come from Judah, Thus says Yahweh: Because you have have been disobedient to the mouth of Yahweh, and you have not kept the commandment that Yahweh your God has given you. 
22 Because you returned and ate bread and drank water in the place of which he told you, You will not eat bread nor drink water there. Therefore your corpse will not enter the sepulcher of your fathers. 
23 And when the prophet whom he had brought had eaten bread and drank water, then the old prophet saddled the donkey for him. 
24 And when the man of God had gone, a lion met him on the way and killed him. And his corpse was in the path, and the donkey was standing at that place, and the lion was standing beside the corpse. 
25 And behold some people came at that place, and they saw the corpse in the way and the lion standing near the corpse. And they told it when they arrived in the town where the old prophet dwelt. 
26 And when the prophet who had brought back the man of God heard of it, then he said: It is the man of God who has been disobedient to the commandment of Yahweh. Therefore Yahweh has delivered him to the lion who has torn him and killed him, according to the word of Yahweh which he had spoken to him [by me]. 
27 Then he spoke to his sons by saying: Saddle the donkey for me. And they saddled it. 
28 And he went and found the corpse in the path, and the donkey and the lion were standing beside the corpse, and the lion had neither eaten any part of the corpse nor hurt the donkey. 
29 And the prophet took the body of the man of God, and placed it on the donkey, and brought again. So they returned to the town of the old prophet, and he mourned him and buried him. 
30 And he placed the corpse in his own grave, and they lamented for him by saying: Alas, my brother. 
31 And when he had buried him, then he spoke to his sons by saying: When I am dead, you will also bury me in the sepulcher in which the man of God is buried, and you will place my bones next to his bones. 
32 For the thing that he had cried out by the word of Yahweh will surely be fulfilled against the altar of Bethel, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria. 
33 After this event, Jeroboam did not turn away from his evil way. But he made again priests of the lowest of the people [regarding honesty] for the high places. He consecrated whoever had the desire to be priest of the high places.
34 And this thing became a sin of the house of Jeroboam, and for this reason it has been uprooted and destroyed from the face of the earth.
