1 Then king Solomon assembled the elders of Israel to him in Jerusalem, and all the chiefs of the tribes, the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the children of Israel, to bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh out of the city of David which is Zion. 
2 And all the men of Israel gathered together with king Solomon at the feast in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month. 
3 And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took the ark. 
4 And they carried the ark of Yahweh [from the city of David], and also the tent of meeting [from the high place of Gibeon] and all the holy utensils that were in that tent. It was the priests and the Levites who carried them. 
5 And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who were assembled to him stood before the ark [at the new house of Yahweh built by Solomon], and they sacrificed sheep and oxen which could not be counted because of their multitude. 
6 So the priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh at its place, into the oracle of the house namely the most holy place, under the wings of the cherubim. 
7 For the cherubim had their wings stretched out over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and its bars which were under them. 
8 And they pulled the bars so that their ends were seen from the holy place which was in front of most holy place, but they could not be seen from the outside of the holy place. And they have been there to this day. 
9 The only things that were in the ark were the two tablets of stone which Moses had put there at Horeb [which is Sinai], where Yahweh made a covenant with the children of Israel when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. 
10 And when the priests had come out of the most holy place, then the cloud filled the house of Yahweh. 
11 And the priests could not continue their work because of the cloud. For the glory of Yahweh had filled the house of Yahweh. 
12 Then Solomon said: Yahweh wants to dwell in the darkness caused by the cloud. 
13 I have built a house in which you will dwell, a place where you will live forever. 
14 And the king turned his face and blessed all the congregation of Israel, for all the congregation of Israel stood there. 
15 And he said: Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who had spoken with his mouth to David my father, and who has fulfilled his word by his power. 
16 For he had said: Since the day that I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel to build there a house for my name [to replace the transportable tabernacle of Moses]. But I have chosen David to reign [with a perpetual legacy] over my people Israel. 
17 And David my father had in his heart the desire to build a house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
18 But Yahweh said to David my father: Since it is in your heart to build a house for my name, you have done well to have this intention. 
19 Nevertheless you will not build the house, but it is your son who will come out of your loins who will build the house for my name. 
20 And now Yahweh has fulfilled his word that he had spoken. For I have risen in the place of David my father, and I am sitting on the throne of Israel as Yahweh had promised, and I have built the house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
21 And I have prepared a place for the ark which contains the covenant of Yahweh that he made with our fathers when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. 
22 Then Solomon stood before the altar of Yahweh in the sight of all the congregation of Israel, and he stretched out his hands towards the heaven. 
23 And he said: O Yahweh the God of Israel, there is no God similar to you neither in the heaven above nor on the earth beneath. You keep your covenant and your mercy toward your servants who walk in your presence with all their hearts. 
24 So you have kept the promise that you had made to your servant David my father. For you have fulfilled today by your power what you had spoken with your mouth. 
25 Now therefore, O Yahweh the God of Israel, keep all that you have spoken to your servant David my father when you said: If your children pay attention to their ways in order to walk before me as you have walked in my presence, then you will always have among them a successor in my sight who will sit on the throne of Israel. 
26 Now therefore God of Israel, I pray you to perform the whole promise that you have made to your servant David my father.
27 But can God really dwell on the earth. Behold the heavens and the heavens of heavens cannot contain you. What then about this house that I have built for you. 
28 However be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to his supplication, O Yahweh my God. Listen to the cry and the prayer that your servant tells you today. 
29 May your eyes be open toward this house night and day, because this is the place about which you have said, My name will be there. Listen therefore to the prayer that your servant makes in this place. 
30 Listen to the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel when they come at this place to pray. Listen to them from your dwelling in the heaven and have mercy. 
31 When a man sins against his neighbor and one of them is caused to swear, and if he comes to swear before your altar in this house. 
32 Then hear from the heaven and act to judge your servants. Condemn the guilty by placing his wickedness on his head, and justify the righteous by repaying him according to his righteousness. 
33 When your people Israel are smitten by their enemy because they have sinned against you, if they turn again to you to glorify your name and if they come into this house to send you prayers and supplications. 
34 Then listen to them from the heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them back to the land that you gave to them and to their fathers. 
35 When the sky is closed and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray in this place and give glory to your name by turning themselves away from their sins because you have afflicted them. 
36 Then hear them in the heaven, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel. Teach them the right way in which they must walk, and send rain on the land that you have given to your people for an inheritance. 
37 If there is famine in the land because of insects like grashopper or caterpillar. If there is pestilence or any kind of diseases when the enemy besieged them in the cities of their land. 
38 If one of these things happens, and any man of the people of Israel makes prayers and supplications and stretches out his hands toward this house because of the wound of his heart.  
39 Then listen to them from your dwelling place in the heaven and be merciful, and repay everyone according to all his ways and your knowledge of his heart. For you are the only one who knows the heart of each of the children of men. 
40 And thus they will fear you as long as they will live in the land that you have given to our fathers. 
41 And when the stranger who is not of your people Israel will come here from a distant country because of your name.
42 When they will hear of your great name, and of your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm, and will come to this house to pray. 
43 Then listen to them from your dwelling place in the heaven and do according to all that the stranger will ask to you. And thus all the peoples of the earth will know your name and will fear you like your people Israel fears you, and they will know that this house which I have built is called by your name. 
44 When your people go out to battle against their enemy after behaving in the way that you have commanded them, if they pray to Yahweh by looking toward the city that you have chosen and toward the house that I have built for your name. 
45 Then hear in the heaven their prayer and their supplication, and judge their cause. 
46 When they sin against you, because there is no one who does not sin, and you deliver them into the hands of their enemies because you are angry with them, and they are carried away captive into the country of their enemies either in a place far from their own land or nearby.
47 If they change the ways of their hearts and return to the right path when they are in the land where they have been taken captive, if they return to you with prayers and supplications when they are in the country of those who brought them into captivity. If they say: We have sinned because we have transgressed and have acted wickedly. 
48 If they return to you with all their hearts and all their souls in the country of their enemies who carried them captive. And if they pray to you while looking toward their own land which you have given to their fathers, toward the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name. 
49 Then hear their prayers and their supplications at your dwelling place in the heaven, and judge their cause. 
50 Forgive your people who have sinned against you, forgive all their iniquities by which they have transgressed against you. And soften the hearts of those whom have brought into captivity so that they may have pity on your people. 
51 For they are your people and your inheritance whom you brought out of Egypt from the midst of the furnace of iron. 
52 May your eyes be open to the supplication of your servant and to the supplication of your people Israel. Listen to them when they cry out to you. 
53 For you have separated them from among all the peoples of the earth for an inheritance, according to what you had said by the hand of your servant Moses when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord Yahweh. 
54 And when Solomon had finished to speak all this prayer and this supplication to Yahweh, then he got up from before the altar of Yahweh where he had knelt on his knees and had stretched out his hands toward the heaven. 
55 And Solomon stood and blessed the whole congregation of Israel aloud with the following words. 
56 Blessed be Yahweh who has given rest to his people Israel according to all that he promised. Of all the good words that he had spoken by the hand of his servant Moses, none remained without effect. 
57 Yahweh our God is with us as he has been with our fathers. He will not forsake us and he will not fail us. 
58 May he bow our hearts toward him so that we may walk in all his ways, by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his laws which he had commanded to our fathers. 
59 May all these words of my supplication to Yahweh be day and night before Yahweh our God. And may he defend the cause of his servant and the cause of his Israel people whenever a case occurs. 
60 And thus all the peoples of the earth will know that Yahweh is God, and that there is no other. 
61 May your heart therefore be perfect with Yahweh our God to always walk in his statutes and to keep his commandments as you are doing today. 
62 Then king Solomon and all Israel with him offered sacrifices before Yahweh. 
63 And the sacrifice of peace offerings that Solomon offered to Yahweh was twenty two thousand beeves, and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. Thus the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of Yahweh. 
64 On that same day the king consecrated the middle of forecourt that was before the house of Yahweh. For he offered there burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the altar of brass that was before Yahweh was too small to receive the burnt offerings and the meal offerings and the fat of the peace offerings. 
65 And Solomon made a feast at that time with all Israel, a large multitude from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt before Yahweh our God, during seven days and seven days namely fourteen days. 
66 And on the eighth day Solomon sent the people away. And they blessed the king and went to their tents joyfully and with happy hearts, because of all the goodness that Yahweh had done for David his servant and for Israel his people.
