1 Then Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered his entire army. And there were thirty two kings with him, and many horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria to fight against it. 
2 And he sent messengers into the city to Ahab king of Israel with the following words. 
3 Thus says Ben-hadad: Your silver and your gold are mine, and also your wives and your most beautiful children are mine. 
4 And the king of Israel answered and said: It is as you have said, my lord the king. I am yours with all that I have. 
5 And the messengers returned and said, Thus commands Ben-hadad: I have made you say that you will give me your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children. 
6 But tomorrow at this hour I will send my servants to you. And they will search your house and the houses of your servants, and they will take away in their hands whatever please their eyes. 
7 Then the king of Israel sent for all the elders of the land and said: Observe carefully and understand that this man does not want peace. For he previously sent messengers to me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold, and I accepted what he demanded [and now he has changed what he asks]. 
8 And all the elders and all the people said to Ahab: Do not obey him, do not accept what he has said this time. 
9 Therefore Ahab said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lord the king that I agree to do what he demanded to his servant at the first time, but I will not do this new thing. And the messengers went and brought the answer to Ben-hadad. 
10 And Ben-hadad sent to say to Ahab: May the gods acts toward me with all their rigor if the dust of Samaria suffice to give a handful of it to each of the people who are with me. [For my army is numerous enough to cover the whole city of Samaria in which you are, without there being any separation between my soldiers.]
11 And the king of Israel answered and said: Tell Ben-hadad that the one who puts on his armor for the battle should not boast as the one who to takes it off after the battle. 
12 Ben-hadad was drinking with the kings in the pavilions when he received this answer of Ahab. And he said to his servants, Make your preparations. And they made their preparations to fight against the city. 
13 And behold, a prophet came to Ahab the king of Israel and said, Thus speaks Yahweh: Have you seen all this great multitude. I will deliver it into your hand today, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
14 And Ahab said, Who are those who will defeat them. And the prophet replied, Thus speaks Yahweh, By the servants of the princes of the provinces. And Ahab said, Who will organize the battle. And the prophet replied: You. 
15 Then Ahab counted the servants of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty two. And after that he also counted all the children of Israel who were near the city and could participate in the battle, and they were seven thousand. 
16 And they went out at noon. Now Ben-hadad was drinking and was drunk in the pavilions, both he and the kings, the thirty two kings who had come to help him. 
17 So the servants of the princes of the provinces went out first, and it was reported to Ben-hadad by saying: There are men coming out of Samaria. 
18 And he said: Capture them alive, whether they have come out for peace or for war. 
19 So the servants of the princes of the provinces went out, and they were followed by the remaining of the army. 
20 And each of the men of Israel [who came out before the remaining of the army] killed an opponent who had come against him, and Israel pursued them. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped by riding a horse, and he was followed by his horsemen. 
21 And Ahab the king of Israel led the army, and they smote the horses and chariots, and they killed the Syrians with a great massacre. 
22 And the prophet came near to the king of Israel and said to him: Go and strengthen yourself, examine and see what you have to do. For the king of Syria will come back at this time of the next year to fight you. 
23 Then the servants of the king of Syria said to him: Their gods are gods of the mountains, this is why they overcame us. But let us fight against them in the plain, and doubtless we will overcome them. 
24 Now therefore, do the following thing: Remove from among the commanders the kings who are with you, and put your captains in their stead. 
25 And form an army like the army that you have lost, with such horses and such chariots. And then we will fight against them in the plain, and doubtless we will overcome them. And Ben-hadad listened to their voice, and he did thus. 
26 And Ben-Hadad assembled the army of the Syrians in the following year,and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel. 
27 And the children of Israel were also assembled, and they went to fight against the Syrians. And the children of Israel encamped in front of the Syrians. And the children of Israel were like two small flocks of goats, while the Syrians filled the country. 
28 And there came a man of God, and he spoke to the king of Israel by saying, Thus speaks Yahweh: Because the Syrians have said, Yahweh is a God of the mountains and not a God of the valleys. Therefore I will deliver all this great multitude into your hand and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
29 And the armies encamped seven days opposite each other, and the battle began on the seventh day. And the children of Israel killed one hundred thousand foot soldiers of the Syrians in one day. 
30 And the remaining of the Syrians fled to the city of Aphek, and the wall of the city fell on twenty seven thousand men. And Ben-hadad fled into the city where he went into a secret room. 
31 And his servants said to him: Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. We pray you to let us put sackcloth on our waists, and ropes on our heads, and we will go out to the king of Israel. Maybe he will save your life. 
32 So they girded sackcloth on their waists, and put ropes around their heads, and went to the king of Israel and said: Your servant Ben-hadad says, I pray you to save my life. And Ahab replied, Is he still alive. He is my brother. 
33 And the men of Ben-hadad observed diligently to know if the king of Israel did not want to kill Ben-hadad. And they answered, Ben-hadad is your brother. And Ahab said, Go and bring him. So Ben-hadad came to Ahab, and Ahab caused him to come up into the chariot.
34 And Ben-hadad said to him, 'I will restore you the cities that my father took from your father, and you will make streets for you in Damascus as my father did in Samaria'. Then Ahab said, 'I will let you go by this covenant'. So Ahab made a covenant with Ben-hadad and let him go. 
35 Then one of the children of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] said to his companion, I pray you to hit me because it is by the word of Yahweh. But the companion refused to hit him. 
36 Then the prophet said to the companion, Because you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh, behold a lion will kill you as soon as you will have moved away from me. And when the companion had left the prophet, a lion met and killed him. 
37 Then the prophet found another man and said. I pray you to hit me. And the man did hit him and he was injured. 
38 And the prophet went and placed himself on the king's way, and he disguised himself with ashes on his face. 
39 And when the king came there, the prophet cried out to the king by saying: I went to fight in the battle, and one of our men brought an enemy to me and said, 'Keep this man. If he runs away then you will have to give your life in the place of his life, or you will have to pay a talent of silver'. 
40 Nevertheless the man disappeared while your servant acted here and there. And the king of Israel said to the prophet: Thus will be your judgment, for you pronounced it yourself.
41 Then the prophet hastened to take away the ashes from his face, and then the king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets. 
42 And the prophet said to the king, Thus speaks Yahweh: Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had given you to be destroyed, therefore your life will go for his life, and your people for his people.
43 And the king of Israel went to his house while being sad and worried, and he arrived in Samaria.
