1 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha with the following words. 
2 I raised you out of the dust and I made you prince over my people Israel. But you have walked in the way of Jeroboam, and you have caused my people Israel to sin, and they have provoked me by their sins. 
3 Therefore behold, I will sweep Baasha and his house, and I will make your house similar to the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 
4 Those of the house of Baasha who will die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and those who will die in the field will be eaten by the birds of the air. 
5 The remaining of the acts of Baasha which he did, and his great deeds, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
6 And Baasha slept with his fathers, and he was buried in Tirzah. And Elah his son reigned in his stead. 
7 Moreover if the word of Yahweh had come by the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha and against his house, it is both because of all the evil similar to that of the house of Jeroboam that Baasha had done before the eyes of Yahweh since this thing had filled Yahweh with anger, and also because Baasha had killed Jeroboam [the reasons that motivated him to act in this way against Jeroboam were not acceptable in the eyes of the spirit  of Yahweh]. 
8 And in the twenty-sixth year of the reign of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah. And he reigned [almost] two years. 
9 And his servant Zimri who was captain of half of his chariots conspired against him. And when Elah was drinking and had made himself drunk in the house of Arza who was the steward of his household in Tirzah. 
10 Then Zimri came and struck him and killed him. It happened in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and Zimri reigned in his stead. 
11 And when he became king and had sat on his throne, then he killed the whole house of Baasha. He had not let any of those who pee against the wall alive [any male], neither of his kinsfolks nor of his friends. 
12 Thus Zimri destroyed the whole house in Baasha, according to the word that Yahweh had spoken against Baasha by Jehu the prophet. 
13 This happened because of all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of his son Elah, by which they had sinned and had caused Israel to sin. For they had provoked Yahweh the God of Israel by their futilities. 
14 The remaining of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah while the army had encamped against Gibbethon which belonged to the Philistines. 
16 And the people who had encamped heard that Zimri had conspired and had killed the king. Therefore all Israel who were in the camp made Omri king over Israel on that same day, and Omri was the captain of the army. 
17 And Omri and all Israel with him departed from Gibbethon and they besieged Tirzah. 
18 And when Zimri saw that the city was taken, then he went into the palace of the king's house, and burned the king's house and himself with fire, and died.
19 And Zimri died thus because he sinned by doing what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, in the same way that Jeroboam had received his own punishment for his transgressions by which he had caused Israel to sin. 
20 The remaining of the acts of Zimri, and the conspiracy that he formed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath to make him king, and the other half followed Omri. 
22 And those who followed Omri prevailed over those who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So Tibni died, and Omri reigned. 
23 So Omri began to reign over Israel in the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned twelve years [almost, including the period of argument since Zimri's death]. He reigned from Tirzah during six of those years. 
24 And he bought the hill Samaria for two talents of silver, and he built on the hill. And he gave the name of Samaria to the city that he built, according to the name of Shemer who was the previous owner of the mountain. 
25 But Omri did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh, and he acted more wickedly than all those who had been before him. 
26 And he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and he committed the sins by which Jeroboam had caused Israel to sin and by which they had provoked Yahweh the God of Israel with their futilities. 
27 The remaining of the acts of Omri which he did, and his strength that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
28 And Omri slept with his fathers, and he was buried in Samaria. And Ahab his son reigned in his stead. 
29 Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned twenty two years over Israel in Samaria. 
30 And Ahab the son of Omri did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, more than all those who had been before him. 
31 And he acted as if it had been a small thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat. For he also took Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal the king of the Sidonians to be his wife, and he went to serve Baal and to worship him. 
32 And he raised an altar for Baal in the house of Baal that he had built in Samaria. 
33 And Ahab made a grove, and Ahab proceeded and provoked Yahweh the God of Israel more than all the kings of Israel who had been before him. 
34 And Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho during the days of Ahab. He made the foundations at the cost of the life of Abiram his firstborn, and he set up the gates at the cost of the life of Segub his youngest son, according to the word of Yahweh which he had said by Joshua the son of Nun.
