1 So the ark of Yahweh was in the land of the Philistines for seven months. 
2 And the Philistines called the priests and the diviners, and they said: What will we do with the ark of Yahweh. Let us know how we must send it back to its place.
3 And they said: If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it away empty but give it an offering for sin. Then you will be healed, and you will understand why his hand did not withdraw from you. 
4 And the Philistines said, What sin offering will we give to it. And they answered: Five golden hemorrhoids and five golden mice, according to the number of the princes of the Philistines. For one plague has been on you all, and on your princes. 
5 Therefore you will make figures of your hemorrhoids and figures of your mice which are ravaging the land. In this way you will give glory to the God of Israel, so that he may withdraw his hand from you and from your gods and from your land. 
6 Why should you harden your hearts like the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts. Did they not let the children of Israel go away when he performed terrifying works among them. 
7 Now therefore make a new chariot, and take two nursing cows that have not yet carried the yoke. Then yoke the cows to the chariot and bring home their youngs that are with them. 
8 Then you will take the ark of Yahweh and put it on the chariot, and you will place the objects of gold which you give for a sin offering in a coffer at its side. And you will send the chariot so that it may go. 
9 Then look at it as it goes. If it goes up by the way of its own border to Beth-shemesh, then it is Yahweh who has done this great evil to us. Otherwise we will know that it was not his hand that smote us, and that it happened to us by chance. 
10 And the men did so. They took two nursing cows and tied them to the chariot, and they shut up their youngs at home. 
11 And they put the ark of Yahweh on the chariot, and also the coffer containing the golden mice and the golden likenesses of their hemorrhoids. 
12 And the cows went straight to Beth-shemesh. They stayed in one direction and mooed as they walked, without turning to the right or left. And the princes of the Philistines followed them to the border of Beth-shemesh. 
13 Now the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh were harvesting their wheat in the valley. They lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, and rejoiced when they saw it. 
14 And the chariot came to the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stopped there at a place where there was a great stone. They split the wood that made up the chariot and used it to offer the cows as a burnt offerings to Yahweh. 
15 And the Levites brought down the ark of Yahweh and the coffer which was with it and which contained the objects of gold, and they put them on the great stone. And the people of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices to Yahweh on the same day.
16 And when the five princes of the Philistines had seen it, then they returned to Ekron on the same day. 
17 And these are the golden hemorrhoids which the Philistines gave to Yahweh for a sin offering: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron. 
18 There were also golden mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five princes, both of walled towns and of unwalled towns. The great stone of Abel on which the ark of Yahweh was placed is a witness of this event, and this stone is still in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh today. 
19 And Yahweh smote the people of Beth-shemesh because they had looked inside the ark of Yahweh. And he killed seventy men, and the people lamented because Yahweh had [also] smitten the people with a great plague. 
20 Therefore the men of Beth-shemesh said: Who can stand in the presence of this holy God Yahweh. And to whom should the ark go in order to depart from us. 
21 And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim by saying: The Philistines have brought back the ark of Yahweh. Come down to take it, and bring it up to you.
