1 And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan: What have I done, what is my iniquity, and what sin have I committed before your father, that he may seek to kill me. 
2 And Jonathan answered him: Far from it, you will not die. Behold my father does nothing great or small without informing me. Why should my father hide this thing from me. It is not so [because my father listened to my voice when I spoke to him about it previously]. 
3 And David said again and swore: Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes and he thinks in himself, Jonathan must not know this thing lest he be grieved. But as true as Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, there is only one step between me and death. 
4 Then Jonathan said to David, I will do for you whatever you want.
5 And David said to Jonathan: Behold tomorrow is the new moon [the first day of the month], and I should sit down with the king to eat. But let me go, that I may hide myself in the fields until the evening of the third day. 
6 And if your father speaks of me, then you will say: David asked permission of me, that he may go to Bethlehem to his own city. For there is a feast for his whole family to celebrate this new moon. 
7 And if your father replies by saying, That is good. Then your servant will have peace [and will no longer suspect your father of deliberately wanting to harm him]. But if anger takes hold of your father, then know that he is determined to hurt me.
8 By doing this you will show compassion towards your servant, for you have made a covenant with your servant before Yahweh. But if you think that I am guilty of something then kill me yourself. For why should you bring me to your father. 
9 And Jonathan said to David: Malice is far from you. And if I find out that my father is determined to hurt you then why should I not inform you. 
10 Then David said to Jonathan: Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly. How will I be informed of what you find out. 
11 And Jonathan said to David: Come, and we will go out into the field. So they both went out into the fields. 
12 Then Jonathan said to David: Yahweh the God of Israel is witness. I will search the thoughts of my father tomorrow at this time or in these three days. And if I do not inform David after finding out that my father does not hate you. 
13 Then may Yahweh acts towards me with all his rigor. And if I find out that my father is determined to hurt you, then I will also inform you and I will let you go in peace. May Yahweh be with you as he has been with my father previously. 
14 Now I have no doubt you will act towards me with the goodness of Yahweh and will not hesitate to save me while I am alive.
15 But I ask you to never withdraw your kindness towards my house, even when Yahweh will have destroyed all the enemies of David from the earth. 
16 So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David by saying, May Yahweh demand it from the hands of David’s enemies.
17 And Jonathan swore to David once more, because he loved him. For he loved David as his own soul. 
18 Then Jonathan said to David: Tomorrow is the first day of the month, and your absence [at the feast] will be noticed because your place will be empty. 
19 But you will hide yourself for three days, then you will go down quickly and return to the place where you previously hid yourself when this matter was in hand, and you will stay near the stone Ezel. 
20 And I will shoot three arrows at the side of the stone, pretending to aim at a target.
21 And afterward I will send a boy by saying, Go and find the arrows. And if I say to the boy: See the arrows are on this side of you, bring them. Then you will know that you can come back, for I would have found that you have nothing to fear from my father, as true as God is alive. 
22 But if I say to the boy. Behold the arrows are beyond you. Then go away, for Yahweh will have sent you away. 
23 Yahweh is forever the witness of the words that we have given to one another. 
24 So David hid himself in the fields. And when the first day of the month came, then the king took his place at the feast to eat. 
25 And the king sat as usual on his seat against the wall. And Jonathan sat opposite him, and Abner sat beside Saul. But the place of David was empty. 
26 And Saul said nothing on that day. For he thought: Something has befallen David when he was clean, and he has not yet been purified. 
27 But on the next day which was the second day of the month, David's place was empty again. And Saul said to Jonathan his son: Why has Jesse's son not appeared at the meal neither yesterday nor today. 
28 And Jonathan answered Saul: David asked permission of me to go to Bethlehem.
29 For he said: Let me go, I pray you. For my family offers a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has sent for me. Therefore now, if I have found favor in your eyes then I pray you to let me go to see my brothers. This is why David did not come to the king's table. 
30 Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him: You the son of a perverse and rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse as a friend for your shame and for the shame of your mother. 
31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the land, there will be no security for you and for your kingdom which you are to inherit from me [for he is so loved by the people that he will become your enemy to take your place]. Therefore now send for him and bring him to me, for he is worthy of death. 
32 And Jonathan answered his father Saul by saying: Why should we put him to death. What has he done. 
33 And Saul aimed his spear against his son Jonathan to strike him. Therefore Jonathan understood his father was determined to kill David. 
34 And Jonathan left the table with a fierce anger, and did not eat of the meal on the second day of the month. For he was grieved because his father had reviled him, and because of David. 
35 So Jonathan went out the next morning into the field at the place agreed with David, and he was accompanied by a little boy.
36 And he said to the boy: Run now, and find the arrows that I will shoot. And the boy began to run, and Jonathan shot an arrow beyond him. 
37 And when the boy had come to the place where was the arrow that Jonathan had shot, then Jonathan shouted behind him: Is not the arrow beyond you. 
38 And Jonathan shouted again to the boy: Quickly, make haste and do not stand still. 
39 And the boy knew nothing, only Jonathan and David understood the thing. 
40 Then Jonathan gave his bow and arrows to the boy and said to him: Go and take them to the city. 
41 And when the boy had gone, then David arose out a place that was towards the south. And David fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times. And David and Jonathan kissed each other, and they wept together. David especially burst into tears. 
42 And Jonathan said to David: Go in peace, now that we have both sworn in the name of Yahweh by saying: May Yahweh be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed, forever. And David get up and departed, and Jonathan returned into the city.
