1 Then the people of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of Yahweh, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they sanctified his son Eleazar to keep the ark of Yahweh. 
2 A long time after the ark was placed in Kiriath-jearim, precisely twenty years, all the house of Israel cried out to Yahweh [for the people were still enslaved by the Philistines during all this time]. 
3 And Samuel said to all the house of Israel: If you return to Yahweh with all your heart, then put away the strange gods and the Ashtaroth from among you. Direct your heart to Yahweh and serve only him, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. 
4 Then the children of Israel removed the Baals and the Ashtaroth from among them, and they served only Yahweh. 
5 And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you to Yahweh. 
6 And they gathered together at Mizpah. And they drew water and poured it out before Yahweh, and they fasted on the same day and said: We have sinned against Yahweh. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah. 
7 For when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, then the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. 
8 And the children of Israel said to Samuel: Cease not to cry to Yahweh our God for us, so that he may save us from the hand of the Philistines. 
9 Then Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it entirely as a burnt offering to Yahweh. And Samuel cried to Yahweh for Israel, and Yahweh heard him. 
10 And while Samuel was offering the burnt offering, the Philistines approached to attack Israel. But Yahweh thundered with a great thunder against the Philistines on that day and scattered them. And they were defeated before Israel. 
11 And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, and smote them until they have come below Beth-car. 
12 Then Samuel took a stone and placed it between Mizpah and Shen, and he called its name Eben-ezer and said: Yahweh has helped us from Mizpah to this place. 
13 So the Philistines were humbled, and they came no more into the territory where the children of Israel were established. And the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines during all the days of Samuel. 
14 And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath. And Israel also took their borders from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites. 
15 And Samuel judged Israel during all the days of his life. 
16 Every year he went to Bethel and Gilgal and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places. 
17 And he always came back to Ramah where was his house, and there he judged Israel. And he built there an altar to Yahweh [to physically bear witness to an event that occurred there].
