1 And one day it happened that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man who was carrying his armor: Come, and we will go to the garrison of the Philistines that is yonder on the other side. But Jonathan did not inform his father. 
2 And Saul was in the border of Gibeah, under a pomegranate tree which was in Migron, and the people who were with him were about six hundred men. 
3 There was with them a priest who was wearing an ephod. It was Ahijah a descendant of Eli who was previously the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh, for Ahijah was the son of Ahitub who was the brother of Ichabod, and both were the sons of Phinehas who was the son of Eli. At that time, the people did not know that Jonathan had gone. 
4 On the path by which Jonathan sought to reach the garrison of the Philistines, there was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp rock on the other side. And the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh. 
5 One of these rock rose up on the north opposite Michmash, and the other on the south opposite Geba. 
6 And Jonathan said to the young man who was carrying his armor: Come, and we will go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised people. Perhaps Yahweh will work with us, for nothing prevents Yahweh to save Israel through few people as he can do through many people. 
7 And his armorbearer answered him: Do whatever is in your heart, and go wherever you please. Behold I am with you to follow the desires of your heart. 
8 Then Jonathan said: Behold we will go to these men and show ourselves to them. 
9 And if they say to us, Stop until we come to you. Then we will stand still in our place and we will not go up to them. 
10 But if they say, Come up to us. Then we will go up, for Yahweh has delivered them into our hands. This is what will serve as a sign for us. 
11 So they both showed themselves at the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they had hid themselves. 
12 And the men of the garrison said to Jonathan and to his armorbearer, Come up to us and we will show you a thing. Then Jonathan said to his armorbearer: Come up after me, for Yahweh has delivered them into the hands of Israel. 
13 And Jonathan climbed the hill with his hands and his feet, and his armorbearer followed him. And some of those Philistines were killed by Jonathan, and his armorbearer killed the others after him. 
14 In this first attack made by Jonathan and his armorbearer, they killed about twenty men. This happened on an area of about half an acre of land, as if it had been plowed by two oxen. 
15 And a fear spread among the Philistines in the camp, and in the field, and among all the people. The valiant soldier of the garrison and those who had went out to plunder were also seized with fear. It was as if the earth had quaked, for the land was struck with fear by God. 
16 Then the watchmen of Saul who were in Gibeah of Benjamin looked. And behold, the multitude on the side of the Philistines was agitated and they were also fighting each other. 
17 Therefore Saul said to the people who were with him, Search now and see who has gone from us. And when they had searched, behold Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there. 
18 And Saul said to Ahijah: Bring here the ephod [for this is what a priest needs to consult God]. 
19 While Saul was speaking to the priest Ahijah, the tumult from the camp of the Philistines continued to increase. Therefore Saul said to the priest: Take away your hand. 
20 Then Saul and all the people who were with him gathered together, and they went to the battle. And behold, the Philistines were turning their swords against each other and the confusion was extreme. 
21 And the Hebrews who were the servants of the Philistines and who had come with them to all parts of the camp joined themselves to the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan. 
22 And also all the men of Israel who had hid themselves in the mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines were fleeing. Therefore they began to pursue the Philistines in battle. 
23 So Yahweh saved Israel on that day, and the battle continued beyond Beth-aven. 
24 On that day the men of Israel were pressed with hunger, for Saul had made the people swear by saying: Cursed be the man who eats food before the evening, before I finish taking revenge on my enemies. So none of the Israelites had tasted any food. 
25 And all the people came to a forest where there was honey on the surface of the ground. 
26 When the people entered the forest, behold the honey was dropping. But no man put his hand to his mouth, because the people feared the oath. 
27 But Jonathan had not heard when his father made the people swear the oath. Therefore he put forward the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth. And the vision in his eyes was restored. 
28 Then one of the people spoke to him and said, Your father made the people swear by saying, Cursed be the man who will take food today. Now the people were tired. 
29 And Jonathan replied: My father has troubled the people. My vision has been restored because I have tasted a little of this honey. 
30 Certainly if the people had eaten today the spoil of their enemies which they have found, then there would now have been a greater massacre against the Philistines. 
31 And they smote the Philistines on that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were exhausted. 
32 So the people threw themselves on the spoil. They took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and killed them on the ground, and ate them with the blood.
33 And it was reported to Saul by saying, Behold the people sins against Yahweh because they eat with the blood. And Saul says: You are committing a transgression. Roll now a large stone toward me. 
34 And Saul said again, Go throughout the people and tell them to  bring me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and to kill it here. So they will eat it without blood and will not sin against Yahweh. And during that night, each one among the people brought his ox with his hand, and killed it on the stone. 
35 And Saul built there an altar to Yahweh, and this was the first altar that he built to Yahweh. 
36 And Saul said: We will go down tonight to the Philistines and plunder them until the morning light, and kill them all. And the people answered, Do whatever seems good to you. Then the priest Ahijah says: Let us approach God here. 
37 And Saul asked God by saying, 'Will I go down against the Philistines. Will you deliver them into the hand of Israel'. But God did not give an answer at that time [through the ephod of the priest Ahijah]. 
38 And Saul said: Come here, you all the chiefs of the people, and find out by whom this sin [that prevents Yahweh from answering us] was committed today. 
39 For as Yahweh the savior of Israel is alive, the one who has caused it will die even if it is Jonathan my son. But none of the people answered Saul. 
40 Then Saul said to all Israel, 'Put yourselves on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side'. And the people said to Saul, 'Do whatever seems good to you'. 
41 Then Saul said to Yahweh the God of Israel, 'Make the truth known'. Then Jonathan and Saul were designated [by the ephod of the priest Ahijah], and the people were exonerated. 
42 And Saul said [to the priest Ahijah]: Cast lots between me and my son Jonathan. And Jonathan was designated. 
43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, 'Tell me what you have done'. And Jonathan declared it to him by saying: I have tasted a little honey with the end of the rod which was in my hand, and behold, I must die. 
44 And Saul answered: May God acts toward me with all his rigor if you do not die, Jonathan. 
45 And the people said to Saul: Will Jonathan die. Far from it. For he is the one who has initiated this great salvation in Israel. As Yahweh is alive, not a hair on his head will fall to the ground. For it was with God that he has acted on this day. So the people saved Jonathan, and he did not die. 
46 Then Saul ceased to chase the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place. 
47 After Saul had been made king over on Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side. Against Moab, and against children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. And wherever he went, he was victorious because of their wickedness. 
48 And he also manifested his strength by smiting Amalek, and saved Israel from the hands of those who oppressed them. 
49 The sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua. And the names of his two daughters: the elder was called Merab, and the younger was named Michal. 
50 And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the chief captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner. Ner was the uncle of Saul. 
51 And Kish was the father of Saul. And Ner the father of Abner [and of Kish] was the son of Abiel. 
52 There was relentless war against the Philistines throughout Saul's life. And whenever Saul saw a strong and valiant man of Israel, he took him into his service.
