1 Then Samuel said to all Israel: Behold I have listened to your voice in all that you have spoken to me, and I have established a king over you. 
2 And now behold, your king walks before you. And I am old and gray haired, and behold my sons are with you. And I have walked before you from my childhood until this day. 
3 And here I am. Testify against me before Yahweh and his anointed. From whom have I taken an ox or a donkey. Who have I swindled, or who have I oppressed, or from whose hand have I taken a gift to blind my eyes toward him. I will restore it you. 
4 Then they answered: You have not defrauded us and you have not oppressed us. And you have not received a gift from anyone to corrupt your judgment. 
5 And Samuel said to them: Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed is witness in this day, that you have not found anything wrong in my hands. And they answered: He is witness. 
6 Then Samuel said to the people: It is Yahweh who established Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt. 
7 Now therefore, listen carefully and I will judge you before Yahweh for all the righteous acts of Yahweh which he has done for you and for your fathers. 
8 After Jacob had come to Egypt, your fathers cried to Yahweh. Then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. 
9 But they forgot Yahweh their God therefore he sold them into the hand of Sisera the captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab. And they made war against your fathers. 
10 Then your fathers cried to Yahweh and said: We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh and we have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. But deliver us now out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you. 
11 And Yahweh sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel. And Yahweh used them to deliver you out of the hand of your enemies who were around you, and you dwelt in safety. 
12 Nevertheless when you saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, then you said to me: No, but a king will reign over us. Despite the fact that Yahweh was your king. 
13 And lo, Yahweh has set a king over you. Now therefore. behold the king whom you have chosen and whom you have asked for. 
14 Nevertheless if you fear Yahweh and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the word of Yahweh, both you and the king who reigns over you, then you will please Yahweh your God. 
15 But if you do not obey the voice of Yahweh and rebel against the word of Yahweh, then the hand of Yahweh will be against you as it was against your fathers.
16 Now therefore, stand still and see this great thing which Yahweh will do before your eyes. 
17 Are we not at the wheat harvest. Nevertheless I will call on Yahweh and he will send thunder and rain, and you will see and understand how wrong you were in the sight of Yahweh when you asked for a king over you [Because Yahweh wants the people to actually participate in the matters that concern them, and this excludes a kingdom that is transmitted from parents to children]. 
18 Then Samuel called on Yahweh, and Yahweh sent thunder and rain on the same day. And all the people were greatly afraid of Yahweh and Samuel. 
19 And all the people said to Samuel: Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God so that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins the sin of asking for a king over us. 
20 And Samuel said to the people: Do not be afraid. You have done all this wrong, but do not turn away from Yahweh. Serve Yahweh with all your heart. 
21 Do not turn away from him. Otherwise you would go after worthless things by behaving in a way that brings neither profit nor deliverance, because these behaviors are from worthlessness. 
22 For Yahweh will not forsake his people, because of his great name. For Yahweh has decided to make you his people. 
23 And as far as I am concerned, far be it from me to sin against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you. For I will teach you the good and right way. [Despite the fact that you have a king. For Moses gave the law, and the Levites are there to teach the law, but Yahweh is the spirit even though we must conform to the rituals that he has imposed on us by Moses. For Moses was also available to give his opinion on the situations that were found difficult by the judges established among the people, as it is written in the book of Moses] 
24 Only fear Yahweh and serve him faithfully with all your heart, because you must consider all the great things that he has done for you. 
25 For if you do evil then you will perish, both you and your king.
