1 And Samuel spoke to all Israel, and Israel went out to fight against the Philistines. And they encamped near Eben-ezer, and the Philistines encamped in Aphek. 
2 And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel, and the battle began. Then Israel was smitten by the Philistines who killed around four thousand men on the battlefield. 
3 And when the people returned to the camp, then the elders of Israel said: Why has Yahweh let us be defeated today by the Philistines. Let us go and take the ark of the covenant of Yahweh which is in Shiloh, and it will come among us and save us from the hands of our enemies. 
4 So the people sent to Shiloh, and brought from there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh the God of armies who dwells between the cherubim [above the ark]. And Hophni and Phinehas the two sons of Eli came among them with the ark of the covenant of God. 
5 And when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh entered the camp, then all Israel joyfully shouted so loudly that the ground vibrated.
6 And when the Philistines heard the sound of these shouts, then they said: What does the sound of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean. And they understood that the ark of Yahweh had come into the camp. 
7 And the Philistines were afraid because they believed that some of the true gods had come to the camp. Therefore they said: Woe is us, for it has not been so until now. 
8 Woe is us. Who will deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods. These are the gods who smote the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness.
9 Be strong and act like men, O Philistines, so as not to become Hebrews servants as they were your servants previously. Be valiant and fight. 
10 And the Philistines fought. And Israel was defeated, and every man fled into his tent. The defeat was very great, and thirty thousand men of Israel were killed. 
11 And the Philistines took the ark of God, and they also killed the two sons of Eli namely Hophni and Phinehas. 
12 And a man of Benjamin ran from the battlefield and came to Shiloh on the same day, with his torn clothes and his head covered with dust. 
13 And when he arrived, lo, Eli was waiting and sitting on a seat near the road. For the heart of Eli was troubled because of the ark of God. And when the man entered the city and gave the news, then the whole city cried out. 
14 And when Eli heard the sound of the crying then he said: What does this tumult mean. And the man hastened, and came to say it to Eli. 
15 Now Eli was ninety eight years old, and his eyes were so weak that he could no longer see. 
16 And the man said to Eli, I come from the battlefield and I fled from the battlefield today. And Eli said: What happened, my son. 
17 Then the messenger answered and said: Israel suffered a great massacre and fled from the Philistines. Moreover your two sons Hophni and Phinehas have died, and the ark of God has been taken by the enemy. 
18 And as soon as he mentioned the ark of God, then Eli fell from his seat backwards, on the side of the gate. And by that fall his neck broke and he died, because he was an old and heavy man. Eli had judged Israel forty years. 
19 And his daughter in law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant and about to give birth. And when she heard the news of the capture of the ark of God by the enemy, and that her father in law and her husband were dead, then she bowed herself and gave birth because the pains surprised her. 
20 And as she was about to die, the women who were near her said to her: Do not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son. But she did not answer and did not pay attention to it. 
21 And she named the child Ichabod by saying, Glory is departed from Israel. It was because of the taking of the ark of God by their enemy, and because of her father in law and her husband. 
22 And she said again: Glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken.
