1 Now there was a man of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite. He was a strong and valiant man. 
2 And Kish had a son named Saul who was young and handsome, and more beautiful than any of the children of Israel, and no one among the people was taller than his shoulders. 
3 It happened that the donkeys of Kish the father of Saul were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son: Get up now and take one of the servants with you, and go and look for the donkeys.
4 So he went through the mount Ephraim and through the land of Shalishah, but they did not find them. Then they went through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there. And he also passed through the land of Benjamin but they found them not. 
5 And when they had come in the land of Zuph, then Saul said to his servant who accompanied him: We must go back home, lest my father become more anxious for us than for the donkeys. 
6 And the servant said to him: Behold there is a man of God in this city and he is a respected man, for everything he says never fails to happen. We may go there, and perhaps he will show us the path that we must take. 
7 Then Saul said to his servant: But if we go then what will we bring to the man. For there are no more bread in our bags, and we have no gift to offer to the man of God. What do we have. 
8 And the servant answered Saul again by saying: Behold I have with me the quarter of a shekel of silver. I will give it to the man of God, and he will show us our way. 
9 Formerly in Israel a man who went to consult God used to say, 'I will go to the seer'. For the one whom we call prophet today was formerly called seer (that is to say, one who sees). 
10 Then Saul said to his servant: You are right, we will go there. So they went to the city where the man of God was. 
11 And while they were going up to the city through the highway, they met young girls who had come out to draw water. And they said to them, Is there a seer here. 
12 And they answered them by saying: Yes, behold he is before you. But hurry because he has come to the city today to participate in an offering that the people will make today at the high place. 
13 When you enter the city, then you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he come, because he must bless the sacrifice and then the guests will eat. So go up now, and you will find him. 
14 Then they went up to the city. And when they had come in the gate of the city, then Samuel was coming toward them to go up to the high place. 
15 But one day before Saul arrived, Yahweh had spoken to Samuel in the following words. 
16 Tomorrow at this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you will anoint him to be the ruler over my people Israel. And he will save my people from the hand of the Philistines, for I have looked at my people and their cry has come to me. 
17 And when Samuel saw Saul, then Yahweh spoke to him by saying: See, this is the man whom I told you about. He will reign over my people. 
18 Then Saul came to Samuel in the middle of the gate and said: Tell me, I pray you, where the seer's house is. 
19 And Samuel answered Saul by saying: I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you will eat with me today. And I will let you go tomorrow, but I will tell you everything that is happening in your heart. 
20 Do not worry about the donkeys that you lost three days ago because they are found. And for whom is reserved everything that is precious in Israel. Is it not for you and for all your father's house. 
21 And Saul answered by saying: Am I not from the tribe of Benjamin which is one of the smallest tribes of Israel, and is not my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin. Why are you talking to me in this manner. 
22 And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the the guest-chamber at the high place. And he made them sit in the foremost place among the guests who were about thirty persons. 
23 And Samuel said to the cook: Bring the portion that I gave you and of which I said to you, Put it apart. 
24 And the cook took the shoulder and its surroundings, and he served it to Saul. And Samuel said: Behold this is what has been reserved, put it in front of you and eat. It was kept for you because I said, I have invited the people. So Saul ate with Samuel on that day. 
25 And when they have come down into the city from the high place, then Samuel communed with Saul on the roof of the house. 
26 And when they got up in the early hours after the sunrise, then Samuel called Saul by saying: Come and I will let you go. So Saul got up, and they spent some time on the roof of the house and they went out, both he and Samuel. 
27 And when they had gone down to the end of the city, then Samuel said to Saul, Tell your servant to go ahead of us. And the servant went, and Samuel said again: Listen now, and I will give you the word of God.
