1 Now the Philistines gathered their armies for war. And they came together at Socoh which belongs to Judah, and they encamped between Socoh and Azekah in Ephes-dammim. 
2 And Saul and the men of Israel also gathered together, and they encamped in the valley of Elah and put themselves in array to fight against the Philistines. 
3 And the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. 
4 Then a man came out of the camp of the Philistine and advanced between the two armies. His name was Goliath and he was from Gath. His height was six cubits and a span. 
5 And he had a helmet of brass on his head, and he wore a breastplate that was made like the scales on a fish and its weight was five thousand shekels of brass. 
6 And he had greaves of brass on his legs, and a javelin of brass tied on his back between his shoulders. 
7 And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron. And the one who carried his shield walked in front of him. 
8 And Goliath stood and cried to the army of Israel by saying: Why have you come out and set your battle in array. Am I not a Philistine and are you not the servants of Saul. Choose a man from among you who will come down to fight me. 
9 And if he can defeat me and kill me, then the Philistines will be your servants. But if I overcome him and kill him, then Israel will be subject to us and will serve us. 
10 And Goliath said again: I challenge the army of Israel on this day. Give me a man so that we may fight together. 
11 When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Goliath, they were discouraged and and greatly afraid. 
12 Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem in Judah whose name was Jesse. And Jesse had eight sons and was considered an old man in the days of Saul. 
13 And the three eldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul to the battle. The eldest of those three sons who had gone to the battle was called Eliab, and the second Abinadab, and the third Shammah. 
14 So David was the youngest, and the three eldest had followed Saul. 
15 And David had left Saul and returned to Bethlehem to feed his father's sheep. 
16 And Goliath the Philistine went out every morning and every evening for forty days to stand before the army of Israel and challenge them. 
17 And Jesse said to David his son: Take now for your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten cakes, and run to the camp to your brothers. 
18 And bring these ten fresh cheeses to the captain of your brothers in the army. You will see if your brothers are doing well, and you will give me reliable news. 
19 Now at that time, Saul and those sons of Jesse and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah to war against the Philistines. 
20 So David got up early in the morning and left the sheep with a guardian, and took what had been given by his father, and went as Jesse had commanded him. When he arrived at the camp, the army was marching to line up and uttering war cries. 
21 For Israel and the Philistines had put themselves in array every day, army against army. 
22 And David handed over the items which he was carrying into the hands of the baggage guard, and ran to the army. Thus he came to his brothers and saluted them. 
23 And while he was talking with them, behold the Philistine of Gath whose name was Goliath came out of the ranks of the Philistines and stood between the two armies. And Goliath spoke the same words as before, and David heard them. 
24 And whenever the men of Israel saw this man, they fled from him and were seized with a great fear. 
25 And one of the men of Israel said: Have you seen this man who has come. He has come forward to challenge Israel. If anyone kills him then the king will give great riches to the same, and he will marry the king's daughter, and his father's house will be freed in Israel [from several of their obligations towards the king]. 
26 Then David said to the men who were near him: What exactly will be done to the man who kills this Philistine and thus removes the shame from Israel. For who is this Philistine, this uncircumcised man, that he may insult the army of the living God. 
27 And the people answered him with the same words by saying: It will be done thus to the man who will kill him. 
28 And Eliab his eldest brother was inflamed with anger against David because he heard when David was speaking to those men. And he said to David: Why have you come down, and to whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness. I know your pride and the malice of your heart which caused you to come down to see the battle. 
29 And David answered: What have I done now. Is there not a cause. 
30 And he turned away from him to speak to another, and asked the same question. And the people answered him according to the previous words. 
31 And when the words spoken by David were heard, then they repeated them before Saul and he sent for David. 
32 And David said to Saul: Let no one be discouraged because of this Philistine, for your servant will go and fight against him. 
33 And Saul said to David: You cannot go and fight against this Philistine, for you are a boy and he is a man of war from his youth. 
34 And David said to Saul: Your servant used to keep his father's sheep which was often attacked by beasts. And once there was a lion, and another time a bear, who came and took a sheep from the flock. 
35 And I went out to chase him, and I smote him and took the sheep out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, then I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and killed him. 
36 This is how your servant killed both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, for he has insulted the army of the living God. 
37 And David said again: Yahweh saved me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear, and he will also save me from the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David: Go, and may Yahweh be with you. 
38 And Saul put his armor on David: a helmet of brass which he placed on David's head and a breastplate. 
39 Then David girded Saul's sword on his apparel and began to walk, for he had never tried it. But David said to Saul, I cannot walk in this armor for I am not accustomed to it. And David remove them from his body. 
40 Then David took his rod in his hand, and chose five smooth stones from the brook which he put in his shepherd's bag. And he held his slingshot in his hand and advanced towards the Philistine. 
41 And Goliath approached David little by little, and the man who carried his shield walked before him. 
42 And when Goliath looked and saw David, then he despised him. For David was but youth, and ruddy, and of a comely face. 
43 And Goliath said to David: Am I a dog, so that you come to me with a rod. And Goliath called on the names of his gods to curse David. 
44 And Goliath said to David: Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the sky and to the beasts of the field. 
45 Then David said to Goliath: You come against me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield. But I come against you in the name of Yahweh the God of armies, the God of the army of Israel whom you have insulted. 
46 Today Yahweh will deliver you into my hand, and I will smite you down and cut off your head. Today I will give the corpses of Philistine's warriors to the birds of the sky and to the beasts of the earth, and all the earth will know that Israel has a God. 
47 And all this assembly will know that it is neither by the sword nor by the spear that Yahweh saves. For all battles belong to Yahweh, and he will give you into our hand. 
48 And when Goliath stood ready to attack David, then David hastened and ran to fight against Goliath. 
49 And David put his hand in his bag, and took out a stone which he threw with his slingshot and which smote the Philistine in the forehead. And the stone sank into the forehead of Goliath, and Goliath fell to the ground on his face. 
50 So David overcame the Philistine with a slingshot and a stone, with which he smote the Philistine and killed him. And there was no sword in the hand of David. 
51 Then David ran and stood over Goliath, and took Goliath's sword, and pulled it out of its sheath, and used it to strike and cut off his head. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, then they fled. 
52 Then the men of Israel and Judah were excited and shouted. And they pursued the Philistines until they came to the city of Gath and the gates of Ekron. And the Philistines fell wounded to death along the road of Shaaraim, to Gath and to Ekron. 
53 And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their camp. 
54 And David took the head of Goliath, and brought it to Jerusalem, but he temporarily put the armor of Goliath in his tent. 
55 When Saul had seen that David volunteered to go fight against the Philistine, then he had said to Abner the commander of his army: Who is the father of this young man [For the king had not paid attention to this detail when one of his servant had announced to him the existence of David]. And Abner had replied: As true as your soul lives, O king, I do not know. 
56 And the king had said: Find out who the father of this young man is. 
57 And when David had returned from killing the Philistine, then Abner took him and brought him before Saul. David had the head of the Philistine in his hand. 
58 And Saul said to him: Young man, who is your father. And David answered: I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.
