1 At that time, Saul had been king for one year. And after having reigned two years over Israel, he made war against the Philistines. 
2 Saul chose three thousand men of Israel of which two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the mount of Bethel, and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul sent the remaining of the people away, each to his tent. 
3 And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the other Philistines heard it [and knew that the Hebrews had started a rebellion]. And Saul caused to sound the trumpet throughout all the land, for he said: Let the Hebrews listen [and know that we are at war]. 
4 And all Israel heard that it was said: Saul has destroyed a garrison of the Philistine, and therefore Israel has made itself odious to the Philistines. And the people were gathered together after Saul at Gilgal. 
5 And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel. They had thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen, and thus these people were like the sand on the seashore in multitude. And they came up and encamped in Michmash, on the east of Beth-aven. 
6 And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, for they were close together and in distress, then the people hid themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in towers, and in pits. 
7 And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling. 
8 He waited seven days, according to the term set by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people began to disperse from Saul. 
9 Then Saul said, Bring me a burnt offering and peace offerings. And he offered a burnt offering. 
10  And as soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, behold Samuel arrived. And Saul went forth to meet him and greet him. 
11 And Samuel said, What have you done. And Saul replied: Because I saw that the people were dispersing from me, and that you did not arrive within the days appointed. And the Philistines have assembled at Michmash. 
12 So I said to myself, The Philistines will come down now against me in Gilgal, and I have not implored Yahweh. Therefore I was bold and I offered a burnt offering. 
13 And Samuel said to Saul: You have acted foolishly, for you have not kept the commandment of Yahweh your God which he commanded you. If you had been obedient then Yahweh would have established your kingdom over Israel forever [that is to say, your legacy would have been admired]. 
14 But now your reign will not continue [it will not be transmitted to your spiritual children even after several generations]. For Yahweh has chosen a man who will please the heart of Yahweh, and Yahweh has appointed him to rule over his people because you have not kept what Yahweh has commanded you [This is what Yahweh commands me to tell you]. 
15 Then Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul counted the people who were with him, and they were about six hundred men. 
16 And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people who were with them, they encamped at Geba of Benjamin. And the Philistines encamped at Michmash. 
17 And there came out of the camp of the Philistines three companies to ravage Israel. One company took the road to Ophrah towards the country of Shual. 
18 And another took the road to Beth-horon, and the third company took the road toward the border that faces the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness. 
19 In those days there was no blacksmith throughout all the land of Israel. For the Philistines [who oppressed them for a long time] had said: Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears. 
20 Therefore every man of Israel used to go down to the Philistines when he wanted to sharpen his plowshare, or his mattock, or his ax, or his spade. 
21 And a man from Israel could not present all his tools at once to the blacksmith because there were separate waiting lists for the plowshares, and for the mattocks, and for the tridents, and for the axes, and for to sharpen the goads. 
22 So when the day of battle came, there was neither sword nor spear in the hands of all the people who were with Saul and Jonathan. These weapons were only found with Saul and his son Jonathan.
23 And a garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
