1 There was a man from Ramathaim-zophim of the mount Ephraim. His name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite. 
2 And he had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah. And Peninnah had children but Hannah had no children. 
3 And this man went up from his city every year to worship and offer sacrifices to Yahweh the God of armies in Shiloh, where were the two sons of Eli who were priests of Yahweh, Hophni and Phinehas. 
4 And on the day when Elkanah offered his sacrifice, he gave portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters. 
5 But he gave a double portion to Hannah. For he loved Hannah but Yahweh had made her barren. 
6 And her rival upset her painfully in order to make her angry, because Yahweh had made her barren. 
7 And it was like this every year. Whenever Hannah went up to the house of Yahweh, Peninnah tormented her in the same way and she wept and did not eat. 
8 And Elkanah her husband said to her: Hannah, why are you weeping. Why do you not eat, and why is your heart grieved. Am I not better for you than ten sons. 
9 So Hannah got up after they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh. And Eli the priest was sitting on a seat near one of the posts of the temple of Yahweh. 
10 And with bitterness in her soul, she prayed to Yahweh and wept. 
11 And she made a vow by saying: O Yahweh the God of armies, if you look at the affliction of your handmaid, and if you remember me and do not forget your handmaid but give a male child to your handmaid, then I will consecrate him to Yahweh all the days of his life and the razor will not pass on his head. 
12 And as she continued to pray before Yahweh, Eli observed her mouth. 
13 For Hannah spoke in her heart and her lips only moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought that she was drunk. 
14 And Eli said to her: How long will you be drunk. Put your drunkenness aside. 
15 And Hannah answered and said: No my lord, but I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor a strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before Yahweh. 
16 Do not think that your handmaid is a perverted woman. For I have spoken until now from the abundance of my complaint and my sorrow. 
17 Then Eli answered and said: Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant the request that you have asked of him. 
18 And she said: May your handmaid find favor in your sight. So the woman went her way, and she ate and her countenance was no longer sad. 
19 Then they got up early in the morning, and worshiped before Yahweh and returned, and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and Yahweh remembered her. 
20 For Hannah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Samuel because she said: I have asked him of Yahweh. 
21 Then her husband Elkanah went up with all his household, to offer the annual sacrifice to Yahweh and his vow. 
22 But Hannah did not go up, because she said to her husband: I will wait until the child is weaned, and then I will bring him to be presented before Yahweh and to stay there forever. 
23 And Elkanah her husband said to her: Do whatever seems good to you. Wait until you have weaned him. May Yahweh only accomplish his word. So the woman stayed and nursed her son, until she weaned him. 
24 And when she had weaned him, then she took him with her and also three bullocks and an ephah of flour and a bottle of wine. And she brought him to the house of Yahweh in Shiloh when the child was still very young. 
25 And they killed a bullock, and brought the child to Eli. 
26 And Hannah said: Oh my lord, as true as your soul lives my lord, I am the woman who stood here near you to pray to Yahweh. 
27 I was praying to receive this child, and Yahweh granted my request that I had asked of him.
28 Therefore I also gave him to Yahweh. As long as he lives, he will be given to Yahweh. So he worshiped Yahweh there.
