1 Then it was told to David: Behold the Philistines are attacking Keilah, and plundering the barns. 
2 And David inquired of Yahweh [through himself] by saying, Will I go and smite these Philistines. And Yahweh answered David: Go and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah. 
3 But when David tells his men that they have to go there, then they replied: Behold we are not without fear even here in Judah. How much more if we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines. 
4 And later David consulted Yahweh again [but this time through a prophet who had just joined them, to convince the men who had to accompany him]. And Yahweh said to him: Arise and go down to Keilah, for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand. 
5 So David and his men went to Keilah. And they fought against the Philistines, and took their cattle, and killed them with a great massacre. Thus David saved the inhabitants of Keilah. 
6 And when Abiathar the son of Achimelech fled to join the men of David at Keilah, he took an ephod with him. 
7 And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah, and Saul said: God delivers him into my hands. For he is shut in, since he has come into a city that has gates and bars. 
8 And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah and besiege David and his men. 
9 And when David knew that Saul was about to harm him, then he said to Abiathar the priest: Bring the ephod.
10 Then David said: O Yahweh the God of Israel, your servant has heard that Saul is coming to Keilah to destroy the city for my sake. 
11 Will the inhabitants of Keilah deliver me into his hands. Will Saul come down as your servant has heard. O Yahweh the God of Israel, I beseech you to reveal it to your servant. And Yahweh said: He will come down. 
12 Then David said: Will the inhabitants of Keilah deliver me, me and my men, in the hands of Saul. And Yahweh said: They will deliver you into his hand. 
13 Then David arose with his men who were about six hundred. And they departed out of Keilah, and went wherever they could go. And it was told Saul that David had fled from Keilah, and Saul stopped his journey. 
14 And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and he stayed in a mountain of the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul was still looking for David, but God did not deliver David into the hand of Saul. 
15 And David saw that Saul was always going out to seek him in order to kill him, and David stayed in the wilderness of Ziph in the forest. 
16 And Jonathan the son of Saul arose and went to David in the forest, and comforted him in God. 
17 And Jonathan said to David: Fear not, for my father’s hand will not touch you. For you will be king of Israel, and I will be at your side. And my father Saul knows it too. 
18 And they both made a covenant before Yahweh. And David stayed in the forest, but Jonathan went to his house. 
19 Then the Ziphites came up to Saul at Gibeah and said: Has not David hidden himself among us in the strongholds, in the forest on the hill of Hachilah which is on the south of Jeshimon. 
20 Now therefore, O king, come down according to all that your heart can desire. And our duty will be to deliver David in the hand of the king. 
21 Then Saul said: May Yahweh bless you, for you have had compassion for me. 
22 Go, I pray you, and get more information. Know where he goes and who has seen him there. For it is said to me: He is subtle and cunning. 
23 Examine and know all the places where he hides, and come back to me with something certain, and I will go with you. For if David is in the area then I will seek him among all the thousands of Judah. 
24 So they got up and went to Ziph before Saul. But David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Jeshimon. 
25 And Saul and his men went out to seek David, and it was told to David. Therefore David went down to a rock in the wilderness of Maon, and stayed there. And when Saul heard that, then he pursued David into the wilderness of Maon. 
26 And Saul walked on one side of the mountain with his men, and David with his men walked on the other side of the mountain. And David fled in haste to escape Saul, but Saul and his men were already surrounding David and his men to take them. 
27 But a messenger came to Saul and said: Hurry and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. 
28 So Saul stopped pursuing David and went to fight the Philistines. Therefore they called that place Sela-hammahlekoth.
29 And David went up from there, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi. 
