1 Meanwhile the Philistines gathered together all their armies at Aphek, and Israel encamped near the spring of Jezreel. 
2 And the princes of the Philistines came forward by their hundreds and thousands, and David and his men came behind with Achish. 
3 Then the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews doing here. And Achish answered the princes of the Philistines: Is this not David the servant of Saul the king of Israel. He has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found nothing to reproach him since his arrival until today. 
4 But the princes of the Philistines were angry with Achish, and the princes of the Philistines said to him: Send this man away. Let him return to the place that you have given him, and do not let him go down with us to the battlefield, lest he become an enemy to us in battle. For how could he reconcile with his master, except by killing our men here. 
5 Is this not David of whom they sang one to another in dances by saying: Saul killed his thousands, and David his ten thousands. 
6 [And Achish knew that Yahweh was one of the true Gods of the earth after what happened to the Philistines for a few months when they had captured the ark of the covenant of Yahweh] Then Achish called David and said to him: As Yahweh is alive, you are an upright man and I love to see you come and go with me in the camp. For I have found nothing evil in you since you came to me until this day. But you do not please the princes [of my people]. 
7 Now therefore go in peace and return to your place, so as not to displease the princes of the Philistines. 
8 And David [who meditates in his heart and rejoices in the providential intervention of Yahweh] said to Achish: But what have I done, and what have you found in your servant since I have been with you until this day, so that I may not go to fight the enemies of my lord the king. 
9 And Achish answered and said to David: You please me and you are in my sight as an angel of God. But the princes of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the battle. 
10 Therefore arise early in the morning, you and your master's servants who have come with you. And when you get up early in the morning, you will depart as soon as you see the light. 
11 So David and his men got up early to depart in the morning, and to return into the land of the Philistines. And the army of the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
