1 The young Samuel was serving Yahweh before Eli, and the word of Yahweh was rare in those days. Visions were very rare. 
2 And at that time, the eyes of Eli had started to weaken and he could no longer see. He used to stay in his place. 
3 One night when the light that was designed to illuminate the temple of God at night was not yet extinguished, and Samuel was sleeping at his place in the temple of Yahweh [a structure that contained the tent of meeting built by Moses] in which was the ark of God. 
4 Then Yahweh called Samuel. And he replied: Here I am. 
5 And he ran to Eli and said: Here I am, for you have called me. But Eli answered: I have not called, Go back to bed. And he went back to bed. 
6 And Yahweh called again by saying, Samuel. And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said: Here I am, for you have called me. And Eli answered: I have not called, my son. Go back to bed. 
7 Samuel did not yet know Yahweh, and the word of Yahweh had not yet been revealed to him. 
8 And Yahweh called Samuel again, for the third time. And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said: Here I am, for you have called me. Then Eli understood that it was Yahweh who had called the child. 
9 Therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go to bed. And if he calls you then you will say: Speak Yahweh, for your servant is listening. So Samuel went to sleep in his place. 
10 And Yahweh came and stood, and he called as at other times by saying: Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel answered: Speak, for your servant is listening. 
11 Then Yahweh said to Samuel: Behold I will do a thing in Israel that will stun the two ears of everyone who will hear it. 
12 In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, for I will begin and I will finish. 
13 For I have told him that I will judge his house forever, because of the crime of which he is aware and by which his sons made themselves contemptible without him repressing them. 
14 Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli that the crime of the house of Eli will not be blotted out by sacrifices or by offerings. 
15 Then Samuel slept until the morning, and he got up and opened the doors of the house of Yahweh. But Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. 
16 And Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel my son. And he replied: Here I am. 
17 Then Eli said: What are the things that Yahweh has spoken to you. Do not hide anything from me, I pray you. May God treat you in all his rigor if you hide anything from me of all the things that he told you. 
18 Samuel therefore told him everything and hid nothing from him. Then he said: It is Yahweh, let him do what seems good to him. 
19 And Samuel continued to grow. And Yahweh was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. 
20 And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of Yahweh. 
21 And Yahweh continued to appear in Shiloh, for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Yahweh.
