1 Then Nahash the Ammonite came up and besieged Jabesh-gilead. And all the men Jabesh said to Nahash: Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you.
2 But Nahash the Ammonite replied: I will make a covenant with you provided that all your right eyes be ripped out, so that all Israel is humiliated by my hand [because I want to humiliate all israel]. 
3 Therefore the elders of Jabesh said to him: Give us a truce of seven days so that we may send messengers throughout the territory of Israel. And if no one comes to help us, then we will come out to you. 
4 So the messengers came at Gibeah of Saul and said these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept. 
5 And behold, Saul came from the field where he maintained his oxen. And Saul said, What is the thing that troubles this people and makes them weep. And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh. 
6 And Saul was seized by the spirit of God when he heard this news, and his anger ignited strongly. 
7 And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them into pieces, and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by the hands of messengers who had to say, He who does not obey Saul and Samuel will see his oxen destroyed in this way. And the fear of Yahweh came on the people, and they went out to gather together as one man. 
8 And Saul counted them in Bezek. And the children of Israel were three hundred thousand men, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand. 
9 Then they said to the messengers who had come, You will return to your place and speak to the men of Jabesh-gilead by saying, Tomorrow you will have help when the sun is hot. And the messengers brought this news to the men of Jabesh, and the people were filled with joy. 
10 Therefore the men of Jabesh said to the Ammonites: Tomorrow we will go out to you, and you will do to us whatever will please you. 
11 And when the morning come, then Saul divided the people into three companies. And they entered the camp of the Ammonites early in the morning, and smote them until the heat of the day. And those who escaped were dispersed, so that two of them were not left together [that is to say, each fled alone in his own way]. 
12 Then some people said to Samuel, Who are those who had rebelled by saying: Will Saul reign over us. Designates those persons so that we may kill them.
13 But Saul said: No man will die today, because Yahweh has saved Israel today. 
14 And Samuel said to the people: Come and let us go to Gilgal, to confirm there the creation of a kingdom. 
15 So all the people went to Gilgal, and they declared there before Yahweh at Gilgal that Saul is king. And there they offered sacrifices of peace offerings before Yahweh, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
