1 And the Philistines took the ark of God and carried it from Eben-ezer to Ashdod. 
2 After having taken possession of the ark of God, the Philistines brought it into the house of Dagon and placed it near to Dagon. 
3 And the next day when the people of Ashdod got up in the morning, behold Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh. And they took Dagon and put it back in its place. 
4 And they got up early in the morning the next day and behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh. And the head of Dagon and the two palms of his hands were cut off and were on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon remained to represent him. 
5 Therefore, from that event until this day, the priests of Dagon and all those who enter the house of Dagon in Ashdod do not walk on the threshold. 
6 And the hand of Yahweh was heavy on the people of Ashdod, and he brought desolation among them. He smote them with hemorrhoids, both Ashdod and its borders.
7 And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, then they said: Let not the ark of the God of Israel dwell with us, for his hand is painful on us and on Dagon our god. 
8 So they sent and gathered to them all the princes of the Philistines, and said, 'What will we do with the ark of the God of Israel'. And the princes answered, 'Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel'.
9 And when they had carried it there, then the hand of Yahweh was against the city with a very great destruction. And he smote the men of the city, both young and old, and they had hemorrhoids in their private parts.
10 Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And as soon as the ark of God came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out by saying: They have brought us the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people.
11 Therefore they sent and gathered together all the princes of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel. Let it return to its own place so that it does not kill us and our people. For there was destruction and death throughout the whole city, and the hand of God was very painful there. 
12 And the men who did not die had hemorrhoids, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
