1 When Samuel became old, he established his sons to be judges over Israel.
2 The name of his eldest son was Joel and the name of his second Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba.
3 But the sons of Samuel did not walk in his ways, for they were possessed by greed. They used to receive gifts and pervert justice. 
4 Therefore all the elders of Israel assembled and came to Samuel at Ramah. 
5 And they said to him: Behold you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now therefore establish a king over us to judge us, for this is done in all other nations.
6 But their words displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to Yahweh. 
7 And Yahweh said to Samuel, Listen to the voice of the people in all that they say to you. For it is not you whom they reject, but it is me whom they reject so that I no longer reign over them. 
8 They act towards you [for you see that this action can tarnish your legacy toward me] as they have always acted since I brought them out of Egypt to this day, whenever they have abandoned me and served other God. 
9 Now therefore listen to their voice. But give them warnings, and let them know the power of the king who will reign over them. 
10 So Samuel reported all the words of Yahweh to the people who had asked him for a king. 
11 And he said: This is will be the power of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots. They will be his horsemen, and some will run before his personal chariot. 
12 And he will make them captains of thousands and captains of fifties. And he will use them to plow his land, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war and the instruments of his chariots. 
13 And he will take your daughters to make them perfumers, and cooks, and bakers. 
14 And he will take the best of your fields, and of your vineyards and of your olive trees, and he will give them to his servants. 
15 And he will take the tithe of the product of your seeds and of your vineyards, and he will give it to his officers and to his servants. 
16 And he will take your menservants and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your donkeys, and put them to his work. 
17 And he will take the tithe of your flocks, and you will be his servants. 
18 And then you will cry against your king whom you will have chosen, but Yahweh will not listen to you on that day. 
19 But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel and they said: No, for there will be a king over us. 
20 And we will also be like all the other nations. For our king will judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles. 
21 And when Samuel heard all the words of the people, then he repeated them in the ears of Yahweh. 
22 And Yahweh said to Samuel, Listen to their voice and established a king over them. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go each man to his city.
