1 And David said in his heart: I will perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than to take refuge in the land of the Philistines, and thus Saul will stop to look for me in all the territory of Israel [when he will know that I live in a foreign territory]. In this way I will escape from his hand. 
2 And David arose, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they went to Achish the son of Maoch and the king of Gath [And at that time Achish did not see an enemy in David who was pursued by Saul the king of Israel. Achish wanted to use David to fight Israel, to fight against the kingship of Saul]. 
3 And David and his men dwelt with Achish at Gath, every man with his household. And David was there with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail who had been the wife of Nabal at Carmel. 
4 And when Saul hears that David had fled to Gath, then he stopped looking for David. 
5 And David said to Achish: If now I have found favor in your eyes, then give me a place in one of the cities of your country and I will dwell there. For why should your servant dwell with you in the royal city. 
6 And on that same day Achish gave him Ziklag. Therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day. 
7 And the time that David dwelt in country of the Philistines was a year and four months. 
8 And David and his men often went up to fight against the Geshurites, and the Girzites, and the Amalekites [who were at war with Israel]. For these nations inhabited the region from ancient times, from the side of Shur to the land of Egypt. 
9 And whenever David ravaged the land, he left neither man nor woman alive and he took the sheep, and the oxen, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the apparel, and he returned and came to Achish. 
10 And Achish said, Against whom have you fought and taken these things. And David answered: Against the south of Judah. And also against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites [who are allies of Israel]. 
11 And David left neither man nor woman alive who could have come to Gath, for he thought: Lest they speak against us by saying, Thus has done David. It is how David has acted all the time that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines. 
12 And Achish trusted in David, for he thought: He makes himself odious to Israel his people, therefore he will be my servant forever.
