1 Then Samuel took a vial of oil and poured it on the head of Saul, and kissed him, and said: Has not Yahweh anointed you to rule over his inheritance. 
2 When you depart from me today then you will find two men near the sepulcher of Rachel in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah. And they will say to you: The donkeys that you went to look for are found. And lo, your father has stopped worrying about the donkeys and he is now anxious for you by saying, what should I do for my son. 
3 And from there you will go further and come to the plain of Tabor, and there you will be encountered by three men who are going up to worship God at Bethel. One will carry three young goats, and another will carry three loaves of bread, and another will carry a bottle of wine. 
4 And they will salute you, and they will give you two loaves of bread which you will receive of their hand. 
5 And after that, you will come to the hill of God where the garrison of the Philistines is located. And when you enter the city, then you will meet a company of prophets descending from the high place. They will have before them a lute, and a tambourine, and a flute, and a harp, and they will be prophesying. 
6 Then the spirit of Yahweh will seize you, and you will prophesy with them, and you will be transformed into another man. 
7 And when these signs which are a proof for you will be accomplished, then you will act according to your heart [and in the fear of Yahweh] in whatever you do because [you will know for yourself that] God is with you. 
8 And you will go down before me to Guilgal, for I will come down to you there. And I will offer burnt offerings and sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings. But you will wait seven days until I come to you and tell you what you have to do. 
9 And when Saul had turned his back to go away from Samuel, then God gave him another heart and all those signs were accomplished on the same day. 
10 And when Saul and his servant arrived at the hill, behold a company of prophets meet him and the spirit of God seized him, and he prophesied among them. 
11 And when all those who had known him saw that he was prophesying among the prophets, then they said to each other: What happened to the son of Kish. Is Saul also among the prophets. 
12 And someone who was in the same place answered by saying, But who is their father. And from this event came the proverb: is Saul also among the prophets. 
13 And when he had finished prophesying, then he went to the high place. 
14 And the uncle of Saul said to him and to his servant, Where have you gone. And Saul replied: We went seek the donkeys, but we did not see them and we went to Samuel. 
15 And the uncle of Saul said: I pray you, tell me what Samuel said to you. 
16 And Saul said to his uncle, He told us plainly that the donkeys have been found. But Saul said nothing concerning the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken to him. 
17 And Samuel gathered the people together to Yahweh at Mizpah. 
18 And he said to the children of Israel, Thus speaks Yahweh the God of Israel: I brought Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you. 
19 But today you have rejected your God who himself saves you from all your adversities and tribulations. For you have said to him: No, but appoint a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes and by your thousands. 
20 And when Samuel had gathered together all the tribes of Israel [namely those who could be chosen to be king in this context, men old enough to wage war], then the tribe of Benjamin was designated. 
21 Then he gathered the tribe of Benjamin according to their families, and the family of Matri designated. Then Saul the son of Kish was designated. But when they sought him, they could not find him. 
22 Therefore they consulted Yahweh again to ask if the one who was designated was going to show up. And Yahweh answered: Behold he has hidden himself among the luggage. 
23 And they ran and brought him from there. And when he has presented himself among the people, he was higher than any man of the people from his shoulders and upward. 
24 And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see the one whom Yahweh has chosen, there is no one like him among all the people. And all the people shouted by saying: God save the king. 
25 Then Samuel informed the people of their duties towards the king, and he wrote it in a book which he placed before Yahweh. Then Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house. 
26 And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah, and he was accompanied by a group of men whose hearts have been touched by God.
27 But some wicked men said, How will he save us. So they despised him and brought him no gifts, but Saul held his tongue.
