1 David therefore departed from there, and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and the whole house of his father heard it, then they went down to him. 
2 And all those who were in distress, or who had creditors, or who were unhappy, they gathered to him and he became their chief. And there were with him about four hundred men. 
3 And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab: I pray you, Allow my father and my mother to dwell with you until I know what God will do with me. 
4 And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him during all the time that David was in the fortress. 
5 And the Prophet Gad said to David, Do not stay in the fortress but depart and go into the land of Judah. So David went and came into the forest of Hereth. 
6 And Saul heard that David and those who were with him had been discovered. Saul was sitting in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah with his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood near him. 
7 And Saul said to his servants who stood near him: Listen now, you the sons of Benjamin. Will the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards to every one of you. Will he make all of you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds. 
8 Otherwise, why have you all conspired against me. For none of you have informed me that my son has made a covenant with the son of Jesse. And there is none of you who is sorry for me, or who reveals to me that my son encouraged my servant David to turn against me and ambush me as it appears today. 
9 Then Doeg the Edomite who was also among the servants of Saul replied: I saw the son of Jesse when he came to Nob. He was with Ahimelech the son of Ahitub. 
10 And Ahimelech consulted Yahweh for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine. 
11 Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest the son of Ahitub, and the whole house of his father who were priests at Nob. So they all came to the king. 
12 And Saul said, Hear now you the son of Ahitub. And he replied, Here I am, my lord. 
13 And Saul said to him: Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse. For you gave him bread and a sword, and you consulted God for him, so that he may rise up against me and ambush me as it appears today. 
14 And Ahimelech answered the king: Who among all your servants can be compared to the faithful David. And he is the son in law of the king, and he moves at your command, and he is honored in your house. 
15 Is it today that I began to consult God for David. Far be it from me to want to harm the king. Let the king not impute any of these things to his servant or to anyone from my father's house. Because your servant knows nothing of all these things, small or large. 
16 Then the king said: You will surely die, Ahimelech. You and the whole house of your father. 
17 And the king said to the guards who was near him: Turn and kill the priests of Yahweh, for their hand is also with David. For they knew when he fled and they did not inform me. But the king’s servants did not want to move their hands to kill the priests of Yahweh. 
18 Then the king said to Doeg: Turn yourself and kill the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and ran to the priests, and killed on that same day eighty five persons who wore a linen ephod. 
19 And Saul also caused to smite with the edge of the sword Nob which was a city of priest. The sucklings and the youngs, the men and the women, the oxen and the donkeys, and the sheep also, they fell by the edge of the sword. 
20 But one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub escaped and fled to David. His name was Abiathar.
21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of Yahweh. 
22 And David said to Abiathar: I thought on that day, when I saw that Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would not fail to inform Saul. I am the cause of the death of all the persons of your father's house. 
23 Stay with me and do not fear anything, for the one who is looking for my life is also seeking yours. You will be safe with me.
