1 And Samuel said to Saul: It was I whom Yahweh had sent to anoint you king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore listen to the voice of the words of Yahweh which I give you. 
2 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he ambushed them in the way when they came out of Egypt. 
3 Now therefore go and smite Amalek, and destroy all that they have. You will have no pity on them but you will kill both man and woman, adolescent and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and donkey. 
4 So Saul assembled the people and counted them in Telaim. There were two hundred thousand foot soldiers, and ten thousand men of Judah. 
5 And Saul went to a city of Amalek, and ambushed in the valley. 
6 And he said to the Kenites: Go, depart from among the Amalekites lest I destroy you with them. For you have shown kindness to all the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. And the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. 
7 And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah to Shur which is opposite Egypt. 
8 And he took alive Agag the king of the Amalekites, and destroyed all the people who where there with the edge of the sword. 
9 But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and of the lambs, and all that was good. They did not want to destroy them, and they only destroyed everything that was contemptible and puny. 
10 Then Yahweh spoke to Samuel in the following words. 
11 I repent of having made Saul king, because he has turned away from me and has not performed my commandments [which I commanded him]. And Samuel was filled with consternation, and he cried to Yahweh during all that night. 
12 And when Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul, it was reported to him by saying: Saul has gone to Carmel and behold, he has set up there a monument for his honor. And then he has come back and has gone down to Gilgal. 
13 Then Samuel went to Saul, and Saul said to him: Be blessed by Yahweh. I have performed the commandement of Yahweh. 
14 But Samuel said: If you have done it then what is the meaning of this bleating of sheep that reaches my ears, and of the lowing of the oxen that I hear. 
15 And Saul answered: They have brought them from the Amalekites, because the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen in order to sacrifice it to Yahweh your God. But the others have been utterly destroyed.
16 Then Samuel said to Saul, Keep quiet and I will declare to you what Yahweh has spoken to me this night. And Saul said to him: Speak. 
17 And Samuel said: When you were little in your own sight, have you not become the head of the tribes of Israel. For Yahweh anointed you to be king over Israel. 
18 And Yahweh sent you on a journey by saying: Go and destroy these sinners, the Amalekites. You will make war against them until you have exterminated them. 
19 Why have you not obeyed the voice of Yahweh. Why have you done what is evil in the sight of Yahweh by throwing yourself on the spoils. 
20 And Saul said to Samuel: I have obeyed the voice of Yahweh and have gone on the way in which Yahweh sent me. I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and I have destroyed the Amalekites. 
21 But the people have taken sheep and oxen from the spoils, the best of the things that should have been destroyed, to offer it to Yahweh your God in Gilgal. 
22 And Samuel said: Does Yahweh delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obedience to the voice of Yahweh. Behold obedience is better than sacrifice, and the observance of his word is better than the fat of rams. 
23 For willful disobedience is as sinful as witchcraft, and transgression is wickedness and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of Yahweh, he also has rejected you as king. 
24 Then Saul said to Samuel: I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of Yahweh. But I did not obey your words because I feared the people and listened to their voice. 
25 Now therefore, I pray you to forgive my sin and come back with me so that I may worship Yahweh. 
26 But Samuel said to Saul: I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of Yahweh, and Yahweh has rejected you as king over Israel. 
27 And when Samuel turned himself to go away, then Saul grabbed the lapel of his coat and it tore. 
28 Then Samuel said to him, Yahweh has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today, and he has given it to your neighbor who is better than you. [He had previously told you that your legacy will not be admired and now he tells you that from today his attention will be focused on someone else. The people asked for a king, and someone other than you will represent the people in the eyes of Yahweh]. 
29 For he who is the strength of Israel does not lie and does not repent by allowing any of his words to have no effect, for he is not a man to repent in this way [and he has already told you that he chose someone else]. 
30 Then Saul said: I have sinned. But I pray you to honor me in the presence of the elders of my people and in the presence of Israel. Come back with me, so that I may worship Yahweh your God. 
31 So Samuel returned and followed Saul, and Saul worshiped Yahweh. 
32 Then Samuel said, Bring me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came towards him cheerfully for he said: Certainly the bitterness of death has passed. 
33 And Samuel said: Just as your sword has made women childless, so your mother will be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Yahweh in Gilgal. 
34 Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul. 
35 And Samuel went no more to see Saul until the day of his death [the death of Samuel]. But Samuel wept for Saul, because Yahweh had repented of having made Saul king of Israel.
