1 When Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, it was told to him: Behold David is in the wilderness of En-gedi. 
2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel, and went to seek David and his men in the area of the rocks of the wild goats. 
3 And he came to some sheepfolds which were near the road, at a place where was a cave. And Saul entered the cave to rest, and he did not know that David and his men were also inside this cave but at the bottom. 
4 Therefore the men of David said to him, Today is the day of which Yahweh spoke to you when he said to you: Behold I will deliver your enemy into your hands, and you will do to him what seems good in your own eyes. Then David approached silently and cut off a piece of the garment that was on Saul. 
5 And after he had done this, David was touched in his heart because he had cut off a piece of the garment that was on Saul. 
6 And David came back and said to his men: May Yahweh keep me from doing anything against my master who is the anointed of Yahweh. I will not raise my hand against him, because he is the anointed of Yahweh. 
7 So David overcame his servants with these words and prevented them from going to kill Saul. And Saul got up later and went out of the cave to continue his way. 
8 And David also got up and went out of the cave, and shouted to Saul by saying: O my lord the king. And when Saul looked behind himself, then David turned his face to the ground and bowed himself. 
9 And David said to Saul: Why do you pay attention to the words of the people who say: David wants to hurt you. 
10 Behold this day your eyes have seen that Yahweh had delivered you into my hands today in the cave. And some of those who are with me have incited me to kill you, but I refrained from doing it because I said: I will not raise my hand against my master, for he is the anointed of Yahweh. 
11 Moreover, look at this thing my father. Look, I say, at the piece of your garment in my hand. For I did not kill you when I cut off the piece of your garment. Understand and see that there is no evil or wickedness in me, and that I have not sinned against you despite the fact that you seek to take my life. 
12 Yahweh will be judge between me and you and Yahweh will avenge me of you, but I will not raise my hand against you. 
13 A proverb of the ancients says that wickedness is the work of wicked persons. Therefore I will not raise my hand against you. 
14 Against whom has the king of Israel come out. Who are you chasing. A dead dog and a flea [for it is what I am at this moment in comparison with the dignity that Yahweh has given you by officially making you king of Israel]. 
15 Therefore Yahweh will be judge and will declare the judgment between me and you. For he will see and argue for my cause, and deliver me out of your hand. 
16 And when David had finished speaking these words to Saul, then Saul said: Is this your voice, my son David. And Saul lifted up his voice and wept. 
17 And Saul said to David: You are more righteous than I, because you have done me good despite the fact that I try to kill you. 
18 Today you have demonstrated the kindness with which you act towards me, since you did not kill me when Yahweh had delivered me into your hand.
19 For who can have a power over his enemy and not use it to take revenge. May Yahweh reward you for what you have done to me today. 
20 Now behold, I know that you will be the new king and that the kingdom of Israel will prosper in your hand. 
21 Now therefore swear to me by Yahweh that you will not destroy my descendants after me, nor cut off my name from my father's house. 
22 And David swore it to Saul. Then Saul went to his house, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
