1 The Ziphites came again to Saul at Gibeah and said to him: Is not David hidden on the hill of Hachilah facing Jeshimon. 
2 Then Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph. [He was incited to do so either by the evil spirit of God which usually agitates him or by some of those around him. For he previously made David swear that there would be peace between them] 
3 And Saul encamped near the road on the hill of Hachilah which is opposite Jeshimon. David was in the wilderness, and he noticed that Saul was pursuing him in the wilderness. 
4 And David sent spies, and knew with certainty that Saul had come. 
5 Then David got up and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and David observed the place where Saul was resting. David also saw the captain of Saul's army, Abner the son of Ner. Saul was resting in the middle of the camp, and the people had encamped around him. 
6 Then David spoke and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah and brother of Joab: Who wants to go down with me into the camp of Saul. And Abishai replied, I will go down with you. 
7 So David and Abishai went to the men of Saul by night. And behold, Saul was sleeping in the midst of the camp, and his spear was fixed in the ground near his head. And Abner and the people was sleeping around him. 
8 And Abishai said to David: God has delivered your enemy into your hand on this day. Now therefore, I pray you, let me smite him with my spear and nail him to the ground with one hit, and I will not need to do it a second time. 
9 And David replied to Abishai: Do not destroy him, for who can raise his hand against the anointed of Yahweh and be blameless. 
10 And David said: As Yahweh is alive, Yahweh alone will smite him. Either his day will come when he will die alone, or he will go to a battlefield and perish there. 
11 May Yahweh prevent me from raising my hand against the anointed of Yahweh. But take now the spear that is near his head and the cruse of water, and we will go. 
12 So David took the spear and the cruse of water near the head of Saul [by the hand of Abishai], and they left. No one saw them or noticed anything, for they were all asleep because Yahweh had sent a deep sleep on them. 
13 Then David went to the other side of the valley, and stood faraway on the top of a mountain. There was a great distance between them and the camp of Saul. 
14 And David cried out to the people and to Abner the son of Ner by saying: Will you not answer, Abner. And Abner answered: Who are you, you who cry out to the king. 
15 And David said to Abner: Are you not a valiant a man. And who is your equal in Israel. Why then did you not keep your lord the king. For one of the people had come to kill your lord the king. 
16 What you have done is not good. As Yahweh is alive, you deserve to die because you have not watched your lord the anointed of Yahweh. See now where are the king's spear and the cruse of water which were near his head. 
17 And Saul recognized the voice of David and said: Is this your voice, my son David. And David answered: It is my voice, O my lord the king. 
18 And David said: Why does my lord pursue his servant. What have I done, what am I guilty of. 
19 May my lord the king now deign to listen to the words of his servant: If it is [the spirit of] Yahweh who causes you to seek my life, then let Yahweh smell the savor of an offering [which is the only thing required in his law for the unintentional transgression of his commandments if someone else has not been unjustifiably offended]. But if the children of men have done it, then let them be cursed before Yahweh because they are driving me out today to separate me from the inheritance of Yahweh by saying: Go and serve other gods. 
20 Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of Yahweh. For the king of Israel has come to seek a flea, as one would hunt a partridge in the mountains. 
21 Then Saul said: I have sinned. Return with me my son David, and I will no longer harm you. For today my life has been precious in your eyes. Behold I have acted like a fool, and have erred exceedingly. 
22 And David answered by saying: Here is the king's spear, let one of your young men come and take it. 
23 Yahweh will reward each person according to his righteousness and faithfulness. For Yahweh had delivered you into my hand today, but I have not wanted to raise my hand against the anointed of Yahweh. 
24 And as today your life has been of great value in my eyes, so my life will be of great price in the eyes of Yahweh and he will deliver me from all tribulation. 
25 Then Saul said to David: Blessed be you my son David, for you will succeed in your endeavors. And David continued on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
