1 At that time the Philistines gathered together and formed an army to wage war against Israel. And Achish said to David: You know that you will come with me in the army, you and your men. 
2 And David said to Achish, 'Surely, and you will see what your servant can do [Yahweh will not abandon me]'. And Achish said to David. 'You please me well, that is why you will be responsible for the protection of my life forever'.
3 After the death of Samuel, and after all Israel had mourned him and had buried him at Ramah his own city, Saul had driven sorcerers and soothsayers out of the land. 
4 But when the Philistines had gathered together and encamped at Shunem, and Saul had gathered all Israel together and encamped at Gilboa. 
5 Then Saul was afraid when he saw the camp of the Philistines, and his heart was greatly astonished. 
6 And when Saul inquired of Yahweh, Yahweh did not answer him neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. 
7 Therefore Saul said to his servants: Seek for me a woman who communicates with the dead, and I will go and consult her. And his servants said to him: Behold there is a woman in En-dor who communicates with the dead. 
8 Then Saul disguised himself and put on other garments, and he went with two men, and they arrived at the woman's house at night. And Saul said to her: I pray you, call on the dead for me, and bring me him whom I will give you the name. 
9 And the woman replied: Behold you know what Saul has done, how he has destroyed the sorcerers and the southsayers in the land. Why then are you putting a trap in front of me to cause my death. 
10 And Saul swore to her by Yahweh and said: As Yahweh is alive, no harm will be done to you for this thing. 
11 Then the woman said: Who do you want me to bring up. And Saul answered: Bring up Samuel. 
12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice and then she said to Saul: Why have you deceived me. You are Saul. 
13 And the king said to her: Do not be afraid, but tell me what you see. And the woman said to Saul: I see a god coming out of the ground. 
14 Then he said to her, What is his face. And she answered, It is an old man who is coming up and he is wrapped in a cloak. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he turned his face to the ground, and knelt and bowed himself. 
15 And Samuel said to Saul, 'Why have you disquieted me by bringing me up'. And Saul answered: I am in great distress, for the Philistines are making war against me and God has departed from me. He answered me neither by prophets nor by dreams. Therefore I have called you to let me know what I should do. 
16 Then Samuel said: Why then do you consult me, since Yahweh has departed from you and has become your enemy. 
17 For Yahweh is working with you as he had spoken through me. And Yahweh has torn the kingdom out of your hands, and has given it to another, to David. 
18 Because you had not obeyed the voice of Yahweh, and you did not execute his fierce anger against the Amalekites. This is why Yahweh has done this to you today. 
19 Moreover Yahweh will also deliver Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines. For tomorrow you and your sons will be with me, and Yahweh will deliver the camp of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. 
20 After hearing that, Saul [who had bowed himself] fell to the ground on his full length, for the words of Samuel had filled him with fear. And there was no strength in him, because he had eaten no bread all the day and all the night. 
21 Then the woman came to Saul and saw that he was very afraid. And she said to him: Behold your handmaid has listened to your voice, and I have exposed my life by obeying the words that you spoke to me. 
22 Now therefore, I pray you, hear also the voice of your handmaid. Let me offer you a morsel of bread, so that you may eat and have the strength to go on your way. 
23 And Saul refused and said, I will not eat. But his servants and the woman urged him together, and he obeyed their voice. So he got up from the ground and sat on the bed. 
24 And the woman had a fat calf in the house, and she hastened to kill it [and to cook it]. And she took flour and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread with it. 
25 Then she placed them before Saul, and before his servants. And when they had eaten, then they got up and went away on that same night.
