1 Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty five years old, and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Abijah the daughter of Zechariah. 
2 And Hezekiah did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that David his father had done. 
3 Hezekiah opened the doors of the house of Yahweh in the first month of the first year of his reign, and repaired them. 
4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and assembled them into the east street. 
5 And Hezekiah said to them: Listen to me, you the Levites. Sanctify yourselves now and sanctify the house of Yahweh the God of your fathers, and carry the unclean thing outside the sanctuary. 
6 For our fathers have transgressed and done what is evil in the eyes of Yahweh our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned their faces away from the tabernacle of Yahweh [the place that bears his name], and have turned their backs on him. 
7 And they have also shut the doors of the portico, and have extinguished the lamps, and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the sanctuary to the God of Israel. 
8 Therefore the wrath of Yahweh has been kindled against Judah and Jerusalem, and he has delivered them to trouble, and to desolation, and to whistles, as you see with your eyes. 
9 For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for the same reason. 
10 Therefore I have purposed to make a covenant with Yahweh the God of Israel, so that his fierce anger may turn away from us. 
11 Now, my sons, do not be negligent. For you have been chosen by Yahweh to stand before him, and to be his servants, and to burn incense to him. 
12 Then the Levites arose. Of the sons of the Kohathites, Mahath the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah. And of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel. And of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah. 
13 And of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel. And of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah. 
14 And of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei. And of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel. 
15 And they gathered their brothers together, and sanctified themselves, and came to cleanse the house of Yahweh according to the word of the king and according to the commandments of Yahweh. 
16 And the priests went into the inside part of the house of Yahweh to cleanse it, and they brought out all the unclean things that they found in the temple of Yahweh, and put it into the courtyard of the house of Yahweh. And the Levites took it and carried it out of the sanctuary to the valley Kidron. 
17 And they began to cleanse on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they had cleansed the whole area up to the portico of [the house of] Yahweh. And they sanctified the house of Yahweh during eight days, and thus they had finished on the sixteenth day of the first month. 
18 Then they went to king Hezekiah and said: We have cleansed the whole house of Yahweh, and the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the table of showbreads and all its utensils. 
19 And we have prepared and sanctified all the utensils that king Ahaz had defiled and cast away when he reigned. And behold, they are before the altar of Yahweh. 
20 And king Hezekiah arose early in the next morning, and assembled the princes [leaders] of the city, and went up to the house of Yahweh. 
21 And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering concerning the kingdom and the sanctuary and the people of Judah. ​​And Hezekiah commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer it on the altar of Yahweh. 
22 So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood and sprinkled it on the altar. And they also killed the rams and sprinkled the blood on the altar, and they killed the lambs and sprinkled the blood on the altar. 
23 Then they brought the male goats for the sin offering before the king and before the assembly, and they laid their hands on them. 
24 And the priests killed them, and they cleansed the altar with the blood of these victims to reconcile all Israel. For the king had commanded that the burnt offerings and the sin offerings should be made for all Israel.
25 And Hezekiah restored the Levites in the house of Yahweh with cymbals and psalteries and harps, according to the commandment of David, and of Gad the king's seer, and of Nathan the prophet. For this commandment had come by the hand of Yahweh and by the hand of his prophets. 
26 And the Levites stood with the instruments of music of David, and the priests with the trumpets. 
27 And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering on the altar. And when the burnt offering began, then they began to sing the songs to praise Yahweh with the sound of trumpets and with the instruments of David king of Israel. 
28 And the whole assembly worshiped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded. All this continued until the burnt offering was finished. 
29 And when they had finished offering the burnt offering, the king and all those who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped. 
30 Then king Hezekiah and the princes [leaders] commanded the Levites to use the words of David and of Asaph the seer in their songs to praise Yahweh. So they praised with great joy, and they bowed themselves and worshiped. 
31 Then Hezekiah spoke and said: Now you have consecrated yourselves to Yahweh. Therefore come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into to the house of Yahweh. And the congregation brought sacrifices and thank offerings, and all those whose hearts were willing brought burnt offerings. 
32 And the numbers of the burnt offerings that the congregation brought were seventy bullocks, and one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs. All these were for a burnt offering to Yahweh. 
33 And they consecrated six hundred bullocks and three thousand sheep. 
34 But the priests were too few, and were not able to flay all the burnt offerings. Therefore their brothers the Levites helped them until the work was finished, and until the other priests had sanctified themselves. For among all those who had had in their heart the desire to sanctify themselves, the Levites were more numerous than the priests. [Now a priest is also a Levite, but a priest is a Levite who is a descendant of Aaron.]
35 And there were many offerings, namely the burnt offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, and the drink offerings of the burnt offerings [and their meal offerings]. So the service of the house of Yahweh was restored. 
36 Then Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced because God had made the people ready. For the thing had been done suddenly.
