1 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in his place. 
2 And Jehoram had brothers who were the sons of Jehoshaphat. Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah, all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel. 
3 And Jehoshaphat their father had given them fortified cities in Judah, and also great gifts of silver and of gold, and of precious things. But Jehoshaphat had given the kingdom to Jehoram because Jehoram was the firstborn. 
4 And when Jehoram had taken possession of the kingdom of his father and had made himself strong, then he killed with the sword all his brothers and some of the leaders of Israel. 
5 Jehoram was thirty two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 
6 And Jehoram walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done. For he had taken a daughter of Ahab to wife, and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh [partly by letting himself be influenced by this woman]. 
7 However Yahweh would not destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had made with David, and because Yahweh had promised to give a lamp to David and to his sons forever. [That is to say the spiritual sons of David, those who imitate his behavior. For what Yahweh had said to David was that he will give the kingdom of Israel to the sons of David only if they were careful to practice his commandments. And Yahweh had also said that he will establish forever the legacy of the kingship of David and of the kingship of his immediate successor who was Solomon. But since there is no ordinary man who does not sin, the transgression of Solomon resulted in the separation of the children of Jacob into two distinct kingdoms.]
8 In his days Edom rebelled from under the rule of Judah and established a king over themselves. 
9 And Jehoram went there with his captains and all his chariots. And they rose up by night and defeated the enemy after the Edomite army had surrounded him and his captains of the chariots. 
10 And the rebellion of Edom against the hand of Judah has continued to this day. Then Libnah rebelled against the authority of Judah at that same time, because Jehoram had forsaken Yahweh the God of his fathers. 
11 Moreover Jehoram made high places in the mountains of Judah, and he caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to prostitute their souls, and thus led Judah astray. 
12 And a writing came to Jehoram from the prophet Elisha with the following words: Thus says Yahweh the God of David your father. Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah. 
13 But you have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and have caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to prostitute their souls as the house of Ahab did in the kingdom of Israel. And you have killed your brothers of the house of your father because they were better than you. 
14 Therefore behold, Yahweh will smite your people with a great calamity. And your sons, and your wives, and all that you have. 
15 And you will have a severe disease, a disease of the bowels, and it will increase day by day until your bowels come out by force of the disease. 
16 And Yahweh stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and of the Arabians who are near the Ethiopians. 
17 And they came up against Judah and invaded it, and plundered all the wealth that was found in the king's house. And they also carried away his sons and his wives, so that Jehoram had no son left except Jehoahaz the youngest of his sons. 
18 And after these events, Yahweh smote Jehoram in his bowels with an incurable disease. 
19 And his disease increased day by day, and the bowels of Jehoram came out by the force of his disease at the end of two year. So he died in great pain, and his people did not burn incense to honor him as they had done for his fathers. 
20 Jehoram was thirty two years old when he began to reign [alone], and he reigned [alone] eight years in Jerusalem. No one was sad at the time when his death was announced. And they buried him in the city of David, but not in the sepulchers of the kings.
