1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen in Jerusalem. He did not do what was right in the sight of Yahweh as David his father had done. 
2 And he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and he made molten images for Baalim. 
3 Moreover he burned incense in the valley of Ben-hinnom, and he burned his sons with fire [as a sacrifice to false gods] according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had cast out before the children of Israel. 
4 And he offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree. 
5 Therefore Yahweh his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria. And the Syrians smote him and took a large number of captives whom they brought in Damascus. And Ahaz was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel who made him experience great defeat. 
6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed in one day in Judah one hundred and twenty thousand men, all valiant men, because they had forsaken Yahweh the God of their fathers. 
7 And Zichri a mighty man of Ephraim killed Maaseiah the son of the king, and Azrikam the ruler of the royal house, and Elkanah the second after the king. 
8 And the children of Israel [of the kingdom of Israel] made among their brothers [of the kingdom of Judah] two hundred thousand captives, the women and the sons and the daughters. And they took also a great spoil from the victims, and brought all to Samaria. 
9 But there was a prophet of Yahweh named Oded, and he went out to meet the army that was returning to Samaria, and he said to them: If Yahweh the God of your fathers has delivered the inhabitants of Judah into your hands, it is because their particular behavior has kindled his anger. And you have killed them with a fury that went up to the heaven. 
10 And now you have taken captives among the children of Judah and Jerusalem, and you intend to make them your servants and your handmaids. But do you not think that you are guilty before Yahweh your God by doing these things. 
11 Now therefore listen to me, and send away these captives that you have taken among your brothers. For the fierce anger of Yahweh is on you. 
12 Then some of the leaders of the children of Ephraim stood up against those who were returning from the war. There were Azariah the son of Johanan, and Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai. 
13 And they said to the army: You will not bring these captives here, because by doing this you will add a new sin against Yahweh to all our other transgressions. For our other transgressions are already great, and the fierce anger of God is already over Israel [and is waiting for the right time to fall on us]. 
14 So the army laid the captives and the spoil before the princes [leaders] and all the assembly. 
15 And the men whose names have been mentioned rose up and took the captives, and used the spoil to clothe those who were naked among the captives and to give them shoes, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them. And they carried on donkeys all those who were tired, and they brought the captives to their brothers at Jericho the city of palm trees. And then those men returned to Samaria. 
16 At that time king Ahaz sent to the kings of Assyria for help. 
17 For the Edomites also had come and smitten Judah, and carried away captives. 
18 And the Philistines also had invaded the cities of the plain and of the south of Judah, and they took Beth-shemesh, and Aijalon, and Gederoth, and Soco with its towns, and Timnah with its towns, and Gimzo with its towns, and they dwelt there. 
19 For Yahweh had humiliated Judah because of Ahaz king of Judah. For Ahaz had created a disorder in Judah, and this had encouraged all the people to seriously transgress the commandments of Yahweh. 
20 And Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came to Ahaz and troubled him, and did not strengthened him. 
21 For Ahaz took some valuable things from the house of Yahweh, and from the house of the king, and from the houses of the princes [leaders], and gave it to the king of Assyria. But it did not help Ahaz [It is not because of this action that a part of Judah has been saved]. 
22 And he transgressed more and more against Yahweh when he was in distress, this same king Ahaz. 
23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus whose people had smote him, and he said: Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, therefore I will sacrifice to them so that they may help me. But this caused his ruin and the ruin of his people in the land of Judah. 
24 And at a certan time Ahaz gathered the utensils of the house of God, and broke into pieces the utensils of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of Yahweh, and made for himself altars in every corner of Jerusalem. 
25 And he set up high places in every city of Judah to burn incense to other gods, and thus he provoked Yahweh the God of his fathers to anger. 
26 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Ahaz, and all his ways, the first and the last, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of Jerusalem but they did not brought him in the sepulchers of the kings of Judah. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
