1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty one years in Jerusalem.
2 And he did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, and he walked in the ways of David his father, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
3 And in the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek the God of David his father [the special law of Moses]. And in the twelfth year he began to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and from the groves, and from the graven images, and from the molten images. 
4 And they broke down the altars of Baalim in the presence of Josiah, and he cause to cut down the images that were on high above them. And they also destroyed the groves, and the graven images, and the molten images, and they crushed them to powder, and strewed this dust on the graves of the people who had sacrificed to those idols. 
5 And he burned [he caused to burn] the bones of the priests on their altars. Thus he cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. 
6 And Josiah did the same in the cities of [the tribes of] Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, and all the way to Naphtali, in their surrounding ruins. 
7 And when he had destroyed the altars and the groves, and had broken and crushed to powder the images, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel, then he returned to Jerusalem. 
8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had cleansed the land and the temple [of Yahweh], Josiah sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder. He sent them to repair the house of Yahweh his God. 
9 And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they gave him the money that had been brought into the house of God. The doorkeepers who are of the Levites had collected this money from the people of Manasseh and of Ephraim, and from all the remnant of Israel [the kingdom of the ten tribes which had been destroyed in the days of Hezekiah], and from all Judah and Benjamin, and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
10 And then the money was given into the hands of those who supervised the work in the house of Yahweh, and then it was given to the workmen who repaired the house of Yahweh.
11 Namely to the carpenters, and to the masons, and to purchase hewn stone and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. 
12 And the men did the work faithfully. And they were under the supervision of Jahath and Obadiah the Levites of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam of the sons of the Kohathites, to advance the work. And also other Levites, all those who were skilful with instruments of music. 
13 And were over all the workers who were engaged in the various works. And other Levites were scribes, and officers, and doorkeepers. 
14 And when they brought out the money that had been brought into the house of Yahweh, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of Yahweh given by Moses. 
15 And Hilkiah spoke and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Yahweh. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan. 
16 And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and he reported to the king with the following words: Your servants have done all that was commanded them. 
17 For they have gathered the money that was found in the house of Yahweh, and have given it into the hands of the supervisors, and into the hands of the workmen. 
18 Then Shaphan the scribe said to the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. 
19 And when the king had heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes. 
20 And the king commanded with the following words to Hilkiah, and to Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and to Abdon the son of Micah, and to Shaphan the scribe, and to Asaiah the king's servant.
21 Go and inquire of Yahweh for me, and for the remnant of Israel and Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the anger of Yahweh that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of Yahweh in order to do according to all that is written in this book. 
22 Then Hilkiah and those whom the king had appointed went to Huldah the prophetess who was the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath the son of Hasrah. Shallum was the keeper of the wardrobe of the priests, and Huldah dwelt in the second quarter in Jerusalem. So they went and talked with Huldah. 
23 And she answered them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Tell the following thing to man who has sent you to me.
24 Thus says Yahweh: Behold I will bring evil on this place and on its inhabitants, according to all the curses that are written in the book that they have read before the king of Judah. 
25 Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods, to anger me by all the works of their hands [especially since the days of Manasseh because the many facets of his negative legacy are still visible]. Therefore my anger is kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched. 
26 But you will [also] say to the king of Judah who has sent you to inquire of Yahweh: Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, concerning the words that you have heard.
27 Because your heart has been grieved, and you have humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and against its inhabitants [in the book that you have caused to read before you], and because you have humbled yourself before me and torn your clothes and wept before me, therefore I have heard you also, says Yahweh.
28 Therefore behold I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be put in your grave in peace, and your eyes will not see all the evil that I will bring on this place and on its inhabitants. And then those servants brought back this answer to the king. 
29 Then the king sent, and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
30 And the king went up to the temple of Yahweh with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and with the priests and the Levites, and with all the people from the least to the greatest. And he read [he caused to read] in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that had been found in the temple of Yahweh.
31 And the king stood near his pillar and made a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh and to keep with all his heart and with all his soul his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statuts, in order to perform the words of the covenant that were written in the book. 
32 And he caused all those who were found in Jerusalem and in Benjamin to enter the covenant. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, namely the God of their fathers. 
33 And Josiah removed all the abominations from all the territories that belonged to the children of Israel, and he caused all those who were found in Israel to serve Yahweh their God. And they did not turn away from following Yahweh the God of their fathers during all the days of Josiah.
