1 After this the children of Moab came to battle against Jehoshaphat. They came with the children of Ammon, and also some others beside the Ammonites. 
2 And it was reported to Jehoshaphat by saying: A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, from Syria. And behold they are at Hazazon-tamar which is En-gedi. 
3 And Jehoshaphat was afraid, and set himself to seek Yahweh, and proclaimed a fasting throughout all Judah. 
4 And Judah gathered together to call on Yahweh, and they came from all the cities of Judah to seek Yahweh. 
5 And Jehoshaphat stood before those who had assembled from Judah and Jerusalem, in the new courtyard of the house of Yahweh. And Jehoshaphat spoke with the following words. 
6 O Yahweh the God of our fathers, are you not God in the heaven. And are you not the ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations. For power and strength are in your hand, and no one can resist you. 
7 You our God have driven out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and have given it to the seed of your friend Abraham forever. 
8 And they have dwelt there, and have built you a sanctuary there for your name. 
9 And they said: If evil come on us, whether the sword of judgment, or pestilence, or famine. Then we will stand before this house and in your presence, for your name is in this house, and we will cry out to you in our distress, and you will hear us and succor us. 
10 And now behold, the children of Ammon and Moab, and those of the mount Seir, these peoples whom you did not allow Israel to attack when they came out of the land of Egypt. For Israel turned away from them and did not destroy them. 
11 Behold I say, they are rewarding us by coming to drive us out of your inheritance which you have given us to possess. 
12 O our God, will you not judge them. For we are powerless against this great multitude who have come against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you. 
13 And all Judah stood before Yahweh with their little ones, and their wives, and their children. 
14 Then the spirit of Yahweh came on Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph. Jahaziel was in the midst of the assembly. 
15 And Jahaziel said: Hear, you all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem [who come from several places], and you king Jehoshaphat. Thus says Yahweh to you, Do not fear and do not be discouraged by this great multitude, because the battle will not be yours but God's. 
16 Tomorrow you will go down against them. Behold they come up by the ascent Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the valley before the wilderness of Jeruel. 
17 You will not need to fight in this battle. Stand still and do not move, and see how Yahweh saves you. O Judah and Jerusalem, do not fear and do not be discouraged. And tomorrow you will go out against them, and Yahweh will be with you. 
18 Then Jehoshaphat bowed down with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Yahweh to worship him. 
19 And the Levites from the children of the Kohathites and from the children of the Korahites stood up to praise Yahweh the God of Israel. They sang very loudly. 
20 And when they arose early in the morning, they went forth to the wilderness of Tekoa. And as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said: Listen to me, O Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Trust in Yahweh your God and you will be strengthened, trust in the testimony of his prophets and you will prosper. 
21 And he consulted the people, and appointed the singers of Yahweh [they had been established in the time of David] to march before the army and to praise him who dwells in the beautiful sanctuary. And they sang by saying: Praise Yahweh, for his mercy endures forever. 
22 And when they began to sing and to praise, Yahweh set ambushes against the children of Ammon and of Moab and of mount Seir, namely those who were coming against Judah. And the enemy was defeated. 
23 For the children of Ammon and of Moab rose against the inhabitants of mount Seir to kill them and to utterly destroy. And when they had destroyed the inhabitants of Seir, then they helped one another to destroy one another.
24 And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness, they looked at the multitude and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the ground, and no one had escaped. 
25 And Jehoshaphat and his people came to take the spoil, and they found an abundance of valuable things. There were the supplies of the enemy, and also precious jewelry on the corpses. And they took it for themselves, and there was more than what they could carry at once. And it took them three days to take and carry all the spoil, because there was a great quantity of it. 
26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Beracah. For they blessed Yahweh there. Therefore they called that place the valley of Beracah, and it is its name to this day. 
27 Then all those people of Judah and Jerusalem joyfully returned with Jehoshaphat in their forefront. For Yahweh had filled them with joy in saving them from their enemies. 
28 And they came to Jerusalem to the house of Yahweh with psalteries and harps and trumpets. 
29 And the fear of God fell on all the kingdoms of the earth when they heard that Yahweh had fought against the enemies of Israel. 
30 So the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was quiet, and his God gave him rest on every side. 
31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. ​​He was thirty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
32 And Jehoshaphat walked in the way of Asa his father, and did not depart from it, doing what was right in the sight of Yahweh. 
33 However the high places were not taken away, because the hearts of the inhabitants of the land were not yet fixed on the God of their fathers. 
34 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoshaphat, the first and the last, they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani which is included in the book of the kings of Israel. 
35 And after those things Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined Ahaziah king of Israel who was doing evil. 
36 Jehoshaphat joined him to build ships in order to go to Tarshish. And they made the ships in Ezion-geber. [A son of Jehoshaphat had taken a wife from the daughters of the house of Ahab the father of Ahaziah] 
37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat and said: Because you joined Ahaziah, therefore Yahweh has destroyed your work [the part of your work that is the result of your collaboration with the wicked man]. And the ships were broken, so that Jehoshaphat and Ahaziah were not able to send them to Tarshish.
