1 At the end of twenty years [after the start of the construction], Solomon had built the house of Yahweh and the house of the king. 
2 Then Solomon built the cities that Huram had given him back, and caused the children of Israel to dwell there. 
3 And Solomon went to Hamath of Zobah, and defeated it. 
4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities in Hamath. 
5 And he built Beth-horon the upper and Beth-horon the nether, which were fortified cities with walls and gates and bars. 
6 And Baalath, and all the store cities that Solomon had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion. 
7 Now there has always been peoples in the land who were of the Amorites, and of the Hittites, and of the Perizzites, and of the Hivites, and of the Jebusites. These peoples were not of the children of Israel.
8 And the children of Israel had not destroy their descendants who had remained after them in the land. It is from them that Solomon raised up a legion of servants for the hard work, and they have served in this manner to this day.
9 And Solomon did not use the children of Israel for hard physical work. For they were the men of war, and his chief princes, and the captains of his chariots, and his horsemen.
10 And the chief officers whom Solomon had [those among them who were of the children of Israel] were two hundred and fifty. They ruled the people who performed the work. 
11 Then Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David to the house that he had built for her. For he said: My wife [who has not submitted to the practices of my people] will not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places where the ark of Yahweh has come are holy. 
12 And Solomon used to offer [to cause to offer] burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar of Yahweh which he had built before the portico of the house. 
13 The offerings were made there according to the commandment of Moses as it is required for each day, and for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the appointed feasts three times in the year, namely in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of the weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.
14 And Solomon established the groups of priests in their functions according to the ordinance of David his father, and the Levites in their offices, to praise Yahweh and also to minister before the priests every day, and the gatekeepers according to their divisions at each gate. For thus had commanded David the man of God. 
15 And they did not depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and to the Levites, concerning all their matter and concerning the treasures. 
16 Thus had finished all the construction works of Salomon, from the day of the foundation of the house of Yahweh until the day that these works were finished. So the house of Yahweh was perfected. 
17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber which is beside Eloth, on the seashore in the land of Edom. 
18 And Huram sent ships and also servants who had knowledge of the sea to Solomon, and those ships were under the hand of the servants of Huram. And they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and they took from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and they brought [the main part of] it to king Solomon.
