1 And Josiah celebrated the passover of Yahweh in Jerusalem, and they killed [the sacrifices of] the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
2 And Josiah appointed the priests in their offices and encouraged them to do the service of the house of Yahweh. 
3 And Josiah said to the Levites who are a tribe that Yahweh had set apart to teach all Israel and to be holy: The holy ark [of the covenant of Yahweh] is in the house that Solomon the son of David king of Israel has built. You will no longer have to carry it on your shoulders. Now therefore, serve Yahweh your God and his people Israel. 
4 Prepare yourselves according to your fathers' houses and to your divisions, as David king of Israel had written, and as Solomon his son had written. 
5 Take your places in the sanctuary according to the fathers' houses [the tribes] of your brothers the children of the people, and according to the division of the family of the Levites. 
6 And sanctify yourselves, and kill [the victims of] the passover, and instruct your brothers so that they may do according to the word that Yahweh had given by the hand of Moses. 
7 And Josiah gave to the people thirty thousand sheep [and goats], namely lambs and kids, for the passover of all those who were present. And he also gave three thousand bullocks. All these animals were taken from the king's possessions. 
8 And his princes [the leaders] had willingly given gifts to the people, namely to the priests and to the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel were the rulers of the house of God. And they gave to the priests two thousand and six hundred sheep, and three hundred bullocks, for the passover. 
9 And Conaniah, and Shemaiah and Nethanel his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the chiefs of the Levites, they gave to the Levites five thousand sheep and five hundred bullocks for the passover. 
10 So the service was prepared, and the priests and the Levites stood in their places, according to their divisions, as king Josiah had commanded. 
11 And they killed the passover [each person must lay his hand on the head of his personal offering before a Levite kills the victim], and the priests sprinkled the blood with their hands, and the Levites flayed the victims. 
12 And they brought the aminals for the burnt offerings according to the divisions of the families of the children of the people [the burnt offerings were not individual], and offered them to Yahweh by the method which is written in the book of Moses. And they did likewise with the bullocks. 
13 And they roasted [the sacrifices of] the passover with fire according to the ordinance. And they boiled the other holy offerings in pots, and in cauldron, and in pans, and they quickly distributed it to all the people. 
14 And afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests the sons of Aaron were busy offering the burnt offerings and the fat [of the passover] until night. Therefore the Levites prepared [the passover] for themselves and for the priests the sons of Aaron. 
15 And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, and their place had been established by the commandment of David, and of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun the king's seer. And the gatekeepers were at every gate, and they did not have to turn away from their service because their brothers the Levites prepared what was for them. 
16 So all the service of Yahweh was prepared the same day, to celebrate the passover and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of Yahweh, according to the commandment of king Josiah. 
17 And the children of Israel who were present celebrated at that time the passover [which is done in the evening of the fourteenth day of the first month], and the feast of unleavened bread during seven days [which is a continuity of the passover according to what is written in the law of Moses]. 
18 There had been no passover in Israel like this one since the days of Samuel the prophet [who lived before there was any king in Israel, and who died during the days of Saul before David became king]. And none of the kings of Israel organized a passover similar to the one that Josiah celebrated with the priests, and the Levites, and all Judah, and Israel who were present [from the territory of the kingdom of the ten tribes which ended during the days of Hezekiah], and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
19 This passover was celebrated in the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah. 
20 After all this things that Josiah had done for the temple [of Yahweh], Neco king of Egypt came up to fight against the city of Carchemish near Euphrates [which was owned by the king of Assyria]. And Josiah went out to fight against Neco. 
21 And Neco sent messengers to Josiah by saying: What have I to do with you the king of Judah. I have not come against you today, but against the house with which I am at war. And God commanded me to make haste. Do not oppose God who is with me, lest he destroy you.
22 But Josiah did not want to turn away from Neco, and Josiah disguised himself and went with his men to fight against the army of Neco. So Josiah did not listen to the words of Neco, and yet these words had come from the mouth of God [since it was the angels of the holy spirit of God who had commanded Neco to go and fight against the king of Assyria]. And Josiah went forward to fight in the valley of Megiddo. 
23 And the archers shot at king Josiah, and the king said to his servants: Take me away, for I am sorely wounded. 
24 And his servants took Josiah out of that chariot, and put him in the second chariot that he had, and brought him to Jerusalem. And he died, and was buried in the sepulcher of his fathers, and all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. 
25 And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah, and all the singers both men and women have spoken of Josiah in their lamentations to this day and have established it as an ordinance in Israel. And behold, they are written in the Lamentations. 
26 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Josiah, and his good deeds which he had performed in order to fulfill what was written in the law of Yahweh. 
27 All his deeds, the first and the last, behold they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
