1 And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and Yahweh his God was with him and exalted him exceedingly. 
2 And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and all the governors of Israel, and to chief of the fathers' houses. 
3 And Solomon and all the assembly went to the high place that was at Gibeon. For there was the tent of meeting of God which had been built in the wilderness by Moses the servant of Yahweh [Moses had caused to build it]. 
4 But the ark of God had been brought up by David from Kiriath-jearim to the place that he had prepared for it. For David had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. 
5 So the altar of brass that had been made by Bezalel the son of Uri the son of Hur was before the tent of meeting of Yahweh, and Solomon and the assembly went there to seek Yahweh [to make ordinary offerings as it had been commanded by Moses]. 
6 And Solomon made offerings there before Yahweh, on the brazen altar of the tent of meeting. He offered one thousand burnt offerings on it. 
7 And God appeared to Solomon in that night and said to him: Ask what you want me to give you. 
8 And Solomon said to God: You have shown a great lovingkindness to David my father, and have made me king in his stead. 
9 And now, O Yahweh God, let your promise to my father David be established. For you have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth. 
10 Give me wisdom and knowledge, so that I may know how to lead this people. For who can judge your people who are so numerous. 
11 And God said to Solomon: Because this is in your heart, and you have not asked riches, or wealth, or honor, or the death of your enemies, or a long life. Because you have asked for yourself wisdom and knowledge in order to judge my people over whom I have made you king. 
12 Therefore wisdom and knowledge are granted to you, and I will also give you riches, and wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings who have been before you have had, and after you there will be none like you. 
13 Then Solomon departed from the high place that was at Gibeon namely the tent of meeting, and returned to Jerusalem. And Solomon reigned over Israel. 
14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. He had one thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placed them in the chariots cities and also with the king [himself] at Jerusalem. 
15 And the king made Jerusalem so rich that silver was as common as stones, and cedars as numerous as the wild fig trees that grow abundantly in the plain.
16 And Solomon had horses brought from Egypt, and linen yarn. The traders of the king received the linen yarn at a fixed price. 
17 And a chariot was exchanged in Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty shekels. And these prices were the same for all buyers, among whom were the servants of the kings of the Hittites and of the kings of Syria.
