1 Then Solomon decided to begin the construction of the house for the name of Yahweh, and of a royal house for himself. 
2 And Solomon counted seventy thousand men to bear burdens, and eighty thousand to hew stones in the mountain, and also three thousand and six hundred men [not only of the children of Israel] to oversee the workers. 
3 And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre by saying: Do for me according to what you did for David my father, to whom you sent cedar wood to build his house. 
4 Behold I am building a house for the name of Yahweh my God. I will consecrate it to him in order to burn incense of sweet spices before him, and to offer the showbreads continually, and to offer the burnt offerings of the morning and of the evening, and of the sabbath days, and of the new moons [at the beginning of the months], and of the appointed feasts of Yahweh our God, because this is a perpetual thing for Israel. 
5 And the house that I want to build must be great, because our God is greater than all gods. 
6 But who is able to build him a house, knowing that the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. Who am I then, so that I should build him a house. But I am doing it to burn incense before him. 
7 Now therefore send me a man who is skilled to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and who has knowledge of carvings. And he will work with the skilled men who are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, those whom David my father chose. 
8 Send me also cedar trees, and fir trees, and algum trees, from Lebanon. For I know that your servants are skilled in cutting timber in Lebanon. And behold, my servants will be with your servants. 
9 And they will prepare timber in abundance for me, because the house that I am about to build will be great and wonderful. 
10 And behold, concerning your servants the cutters and the hewers of timber, I will give for them twenty thousand measures of crushed wheat, and twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil. 
11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in a letter that he sent to Solomon by saying: It is because Yahweh loves his people that he has made you king over them. 
12 And Huram said moreover: Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who made the heaven and the earth. For he has given to king David a wise son, endued with prudence and understanding in order to build a house for Yahweh and a royal house for his kingdom. 
13 Now therefore I will send you a wise and skilled man whose name is Huram Abi. 
14 He is the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre. He is skilled to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in stone, and in timber, and in purple, and in blue fabrics, and in fine linen, and in crimson, and in all kinds of carved work, and he can embroider in all the embroidery works that will be given to him. He will work with your skilful men, and with the skilful men of my lord David your father. 
15 Now therefore concerning the wheat, and the barley, and the oil, and the wine that my lord has spoken of, let him send it to his servants. 
16 And we will cut wood in Lebanon, as much as you need, and we will bring it to you by sea in rafts to Joppa, and you will carry it to Jerusalem. 
17 And Solomon numbered all the foreigners [the men able to work] who were in the land of Israel, whom David his father had numbered. And they were found one hundred and fifty three thousand and six hundred. 
18 And he established seventy thousand men among them to carry burdens, and eighty thousand to hew stones in the mountain, and three thousand and six hundred overseers [not only of the children of Israel] to cause the people to work.
