1 Then the spirit of God came on Azariah the son of Obed. 
2 And Azariah went out to meet Asa, and said to him: O Asa, and all Judah, and Benjamin, listen to me. Yahweh is with you while you are with him. If you seek him then you will find him. But if you forsake him then he will forsake you. 
3 For a long time (in the days of the judges), Israel was without the true God and without a teaching priest and without the law.
4 But whenever the Israelites were in distress and turned to Yahweh the God of Israel, and sought him, then they found him. 
5 In those days [whenever they forsook their God], there was no peace for those who went in and out. For all the inhabitants of the land were in great distress.
6 Foreign nations were against the nation of the children of Israel, but also one city was against another among the children of Israel. For God was vexing them with all kinds of adversity. 
7 Therefore be strong and do not let your hands grow weak, because your work will be rewarded. 
8 And when Asa heard these words prophesied by Obed the prophet, he took courage and removed the abominations from all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and from the cities that he had taken in the hill country of Ephraim. And he renewed the altar of Yahweh that was before the portico of the house of Yahweh. 
9 And Asa gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and those who had come to live with them and who were mostly from Ephraim, and Manasseh, and Simeon. For a great number of the people of Israel joined him when they saw that Yahweh his God was with him. 
10 So they assembled at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa. 
11 And at that time they made offerings from the spoil that they had taken in the war [against Zerah of Ethiopia]. They offered seven hundred bullocks and seven thousand sheep [peace offerings]. 
12 And they made a covenant to seek Yahweh the God of their fathers with all their hearts and with all their souls. 
13 And they agreed that whoever would not seek Yahweh the God of Israel was to be put to death, whether small or great, man or woman. 
14 And they swore to Yahweh with a loud voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets. 
15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath. For they had sworn to Yahweh with all their hearts, and they had sought him with their whole desire. So they found him, and Yahweh gave them rest on every side.
16 And king Asa also removed the prerogative of his mother Maacah [his grandmother who took care of him], because she had made an idol in a grove. And Asa destroyed her idol, and crushed it into powder, and burned it in the valley of Kidron.
17 But the high places did not disappear in Israel, although the heart of Asa was perfect [with Yahweh] during all his days.
18 And Asa also brought in the house of God the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that he had dedicated himself, namely silver and gold and vessels. 
19 And there was no war until the thirty fifth year of the reign of Asa.
