1 And when Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, then he gathered all the house of Judah and Benjamin to fight against Israel in order to bring it into the kingdom of Rehoboam. And there were one hundred and eighty thousand chosen men fit for war.
2 But the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah the man of God with the following words. 
3 Speak with the following words to Rehoboam who is the son of Solomon and the king of Judah, and to all the children of Israel who are in Judah and Benjamin.
4 Thus says Yahweh, 'Do not go up nor fight against your brothers, but let each of you return to his house because this thing is done by me'. Therefore they obeyed the word of Yahweh, and they returned from going against Jeroboam. 
5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem and built fortified cities in Judah. 
6 He built Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa. 
7 And Beth-zur, and Soco, and Adullam. 
8 And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph. 
9 And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah. 
10 And Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which were in Judah and Benjamin, and all were fortified cities. 
11 And when he had fortified those cities, then he did put captains in them, and also storehouses of food, and of oil, and of wine.
12 And Rehoboam did put shields and spears in each city and made the cities very strong. So Judah and Benjamin belonged to him. 
13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel departed from all their borders and came to Rehoboam [the king of Judah]. 
14 For the Levites left their suburbs and their possessions, and came to Judah and to Jerusalem, because Jeroboam [the king of Israel] and his sons prevented them from fulfilling their duties as priests of Yahweh. 
15 And Jeroboam chose his own priests from among his people to serve in the high places which he created, where he set up the strangers gods namely the calves that he had made [he had caused to make them]. 
16 And the Levites came in the land of Judah with those of all the tribes of Israel whose hearts were eager to seek Yahweh the God of Israel. They came there to be able make sacrifices at Jerusalem and thus serve Yahweh the God of their fathers [by complying with the commandments of Moses which give a function to the hereditary tribe of Levi and to a house like the one that Solomon built in Jerusalem for the name of Yahweh]. 
17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong for three years. For they walked during three years in the way of David and Solomon [when Solomon's heart was perfect toward his God]. 
18 And Rehoboam [the son of Solomon the son of David] took Mahalath to wife. She was the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David, and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse [and Jesse was the father of David]. 
19 And she bore him sons: Jeush, and Shemariah, and Zaham. 
20 And after her, Rehoboam took Maacah the daughter [granddaughter] of Absalom [the son of David]. And she bore him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
21 And Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter [granddaughter] of Absalom more than all his wives and his concubines. For he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and he begot twenty eight sons and sixty daughters. 
22 And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maacah the chief among his brothers, because he intended to make him king. 
23 And Rehoboam acted wisely [according to his own point of view] and dispersed all his sons throughout all the land of Judah and Benjamin, in all the fortified cities. And Rehoboam provided them with food in abundance, and sought many wives for them.
