1 So all the work that Solomon made for the house of Yahweh was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had dedicated, and also the silver, and the gold, and all the vessels, and he did put them in the treasuries of the house of God. 
2 Then Solomon assembled at Jerusalem the elders of Israel, and all the chiefs of the tribes, and the chief fathers of the children of Israel, in order to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David which is Zion. 
3 And all the men of Israel assembled before the king at the feast. It was in the seventh month. 
4 And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took the ark. 
5 And they carried the ark [from the city of David], and also the tent of meeting [from the high place of Gibeon] and all the holy utensils that were in that tent. It was the priests and the Levites who carried them. 
6 And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who were assembled to him stood before the ark [at the new house of Yahweh built by Solomon], and they sacrificed sheep and oxen which could not be counted because of their multitude.
7 So the priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh at its place, into the oracle of the house namely the most holy place, under the wings of the cherubim. 
8 For the cherubim had their wings stretched out over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and its bars which were under them. 
9 And they pulled the bars so that their ends were seen from the holy place which was in front of most holy place, but they could not be seen from the outside of the holy place. And they have been there to this day.
10 The only things that were in the ark were the two tablets of stone which Moses had put there at Horeb [which is Sinai], where Yahweh made a covenant with the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. 
11 And the priests who were present had come to be sanctified [through the importance of the event]. So when the priests had come out of the holy place, they stood together and not according to their special groups. 
12 Now those of the Levites who were singers, all of them, namely the groups of Asaph and of Heman and of Jeduthun, and their sons and their brothers, they were clothed with fine linen. And they were standing at the east end of the altar with cymbals, and with psalteries, and with harps, and there were one hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets. 
13 And they were as one, sounding the trumpets and singing by making one sound in order to be heard while praising and thanking Yahweh. And when they praised Yahweh by saying 'For he is good, because his mercy endures forever', at that moment the house was filled with a cloud, namely the house of Yahweh [the holy place and the most holy place]. 
14 So the other priests could not continue their work because of the cloud. For the glory of Yahweh had filled the house of God.
