1 Amaziah was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 
2 And Amaziah did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, but not with a perfect heart.
3 And when the kingdom was established in his hand, he killed those of his servants who had killed the king his father.
4 But he did not kill their children, for he did according to what is written in the law in the book of Moses, where Yahweh commanded by saying: The fathers will not die for the children, and the children will not die for the fathers, but each man will die for his own sin. 
5 And Amaziah assembled Judah and grouped them according to their fathers' houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, throughout all Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from twenty years old and upward, and found among them three hundred thousand chosen men able to go forth to war and to handle spear and shield. 
6 And Amaziah also hired one hundred thousand valiant men from the kingdom of Israel which was their neighbor, for one hundred talents of silver. 
7 But a man of God came to Amaziah and said: O king, let not the army of Israel go with you. For Yahweh is not with Israel, especially with all the house of Ephraim [from which you have hired soldiers]. 
8 For if you go with them then God will make you fall before the enemy although you may act valiantly in battle. For God has the power to help and to cast down. [Because right now Yahweh is angry with the house of Ephraim to the point that he does not want to give them a special inheritance by a victory in this battle.] 
9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, what will we do for the hundred talents that I have given to this company of the soldiers of Israel. And the man of God answered: Yahweh is able to give you much more than that. 
10 Then Amaziah separated the company that had come to him from Ephraim, and sent them to their homes. Therefore their anger was greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned to their places in fierce anger. 
11 And Amaziah took courage and led his people, and went to the valley of salt, and killed ten thousand men of the children of Seir. 
12 And the children of Judah also took ten thousand men alive among the enemies in the war, and brought them to the top of a rock, and cast them down from the top of the rock, and thus they all did burst into pieces. 
13 But the company of the men of the kingdom of Israel [from the house of Ephraim] whom Amaziah had sent away to prevent them from going with him to battle, those same men invaded the cities of Judah from Samaria to Beth-horon, and they killed three thousand people and took much spoil. 
14 Now when Amaziah had returned from the slaughter of the Edomites, he had brought the gods of the children of Seir and set them up to be his gods, and worshiped them, and burned incense to them. [Now Amaziah had received the news about the actions of the men of war of Ephraim whom Yahweh had asked him to send away to their homes. And Amaziah became like a madman, because he did not understand why Yahweh has allowed those men to go and ravage the land of Judah which is bordering with Samaria. For Amaziah did not understand that Yahweh uses the ones to punish the others in order to give a particular inheritance to each person, and Amaziah thought that he had been punished by the gods of the people to whom he made war.] 
15 Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent a prophet who came and said to Amaziah: Why have you sought the gods of this people. Have theses gods saved their own people out of your hand. 
16 And as he was speaking, Amaziah said to him, 'Have we made you an advisor to the king. Go away, for why should you want us to smite you'. And the prophet forbear, but he said: I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this thing and have not listened to my advice.
17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent messengers to Joash [Jehoash] the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu king of Israel by saying: Come, and we will look one another in the face and fight. 
18 But Joash the king of Israel sent messengers to Amaziah king of Judah by saying: The thistle that is in Lebanon sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon by saying, Give your daughter to my son to wife. And the wild beasts that was in Lebanon went and trampled the thistle. 
19 You are thinking, 'Lo, I have smitten Edom'. Therefore your heart has become proud. Now stay at home [and enjoy your glory]. Why should you undertake a provocation that will bring ruin to Judah and to you. [This is the personal point of view of Joash, because it is not exactly what is happening in the mind of Amaziah. For Amaziah wants to compare the power of his new gods with the power of the God of the children of Jacob.] 
20 But Amaziah did not want to listen to Joash. For it was a thing directed by God in order bring evil on the people of Judah by delivering them into the hand of Joash king of Israel, because Judah were seeking refuge under the imaginary power of the gods of Edom and they had not wanted to listen to the warnings of the prophet whom Yahweh had sent to warn them. 
21 So Joash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah saw one another in the face and fought at Beth-shemesh which belongs to Judah.
22 And Judah suffered the worst in fighting against Israel, and the men of Judah fled every one to his tent.
23 And when they were at Beth-shemesh, Joash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah and son of Joash the son of Ahaziah, and Joash brought Amaziah to Jerusalem, and Joash destroyed a length of four hundred cubits of the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate.
24 And he took all the gold and silver and all the utensils that were found [at that time] in the house of God and which had been placed under the responsibility of a man called Obed-edom, and also those in the treasures of the king's house, and the children who were held hostage there, and he returned to Samaria.
25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Joash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel.
26 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Amaziah, the first and the last, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
27 Now after the time that Amaziah had turned away from Yahweh, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem and he fled to Lachish. But they sent men to pursue him to Lachish, and they killed him there. 
28 And they carried the corpse of Amaziah on horses, and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
