1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba. 
2 And Joash did what was right in the sight of Yahweh during all the days of Jehoiada the priest. 
3 And Jehoiada took two wives for Joash, and Joash begot sons and daughters. 
4 And afterward it came into the mind of Joash to restore the house of Yahweh. 
5 And Joash assembled the priests and the Levites, and said to them: Go through the cities of Judah and collect money from all Israel every year to repair the house of your God, and be hasty about this matter. But the Levites did not hurry. 
6 Therefore the king called Jehoiada the high priest and said to him: Why have you not required of the Levites to bring from Judah and Jerusalem the tax that Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded. For it was taken from the congregation of Israel in those days for the tabernacle of testimony. 
7 For the wicked Athaliah and her children have devastated the house of God, and they have caused all the dedicated things of the house of Yahweh to be used for the Baalim. 
8 Therefore the king commanded, and they made a box and set it outside at the gate of the house of Yahweh. 
9 And they made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem, to bring for Yahweh the tax that Moses the servant of God had laid on Israel in the wilderness. 
10 And all the princes [leaders] and all the people rejoiced, and they brought and put their money into the box until it was full. 
11 And the Levites brought the box to the king's officers whenever they saw that there was much money in it, and the secretary of the king came up with an officer appointed by the high priest to empty the box, and they took it and carried it back to its place. And they did so daily, for they gathered money in abundance.
12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who were responsible for the work in the house of Yahweh. And they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of Yahweh, and they gave it also to workers of iron and brass to repair the house of Yahweh. 
13 So the workers worked, and the work of repair was successful in their hands. And they restored the house of God to its state, and strengthened it. 
14 And when the work to be done was finished, they brought the remaining of the money before the king and Jehoiada, and he used it to make utensils for the house of Yahweh. They made utensils for ministering and for offerings, incense cups and forks, and other utensils of gold and of silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of Yahweh continually during all the days of Jehoiada. 
15 But Jehoiada died when he was old and full of days. He was one hundred and thirty years old when he died. 
16 And they buried him in the city of David with the kings, because he had done good for the people of Israel, and also for God and for the house of God. 
17 And after the death of Jehoiada, the princes [leaders] of Judah came and made obeisance to the king. Then the king listened to them. 
18 And they forsook the house of Yahweh the God of their fathers, and served the groves and the idols. And the wrath of Yahweh came on Judah and Jerusalem, because of their transgressions. 
19 And God sent prophets among the people to bring them back to Yahweh. And the prophets warned them, but they refused to listen. 
20 And the spirit of God came on Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood before the people and said to them, Thus says God: Why do you transgress the commandments of Yahweh. Surely you will not prosper, for you have forsaken Yahweh and he also has forsaken you. 
21 Then they conspired against Zechariah and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king, in the courtyard of the house of Yahweh. 
22 Thus king Joash did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada the father of Zechariah had done for him, but Joash kill his son. And Zechariah said when he was dying: May Yahweh look at it, and require it. 
23 And at the end of the year, the army of the Syrians came up against Joash. They came to Judah and Jerusalem, and killed all the princes [leaders] of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoil of those victims to the king of Damascus. 
24 The army of the Syrians had come with a small number of men, and yet Yahweh delivered a very great army into the hands of those Syrians because they had forsaken Yahweh the God of their fathers. Thus the Syrians executed judgment on Joash. 
25 And when they had departed from Joash, after he had been badly wounded, his own servants conspired against him because of the blood of the children of Jehoiada the priest [It is because of this blood that God made this happen]. And they killed him on his bed, and he died. And they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the sepulchers of the kings. 
26 And these are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess. 
27 Concerning his sons, and the great prophecies against him, and the rebuilding of the house of God, behold they are written in the commentary of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.
