1 And in the seventh year, Jehoiada strengthened himself and made a covenant with the captains of hundreds, namely Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri. 
2 And they went throughout the land of Judah in order to gather the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the chiefs of the father's houses of Israel who were found there, and they came to Jerusalem. 
3 And the whole assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God, and Jehoiada said to them: Behold the son of the king will reign, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the sons of David.
4 This is what you will do. A third part of those of the Levites and the priests among you who usually come to serve on the day of the sabbath will keep the doors.
5 And another third part will be toward the king's house, and another third part at the gate of the foundation. And all the people will be in the courtyards of the house of Yahweh. 
6 But let no one enter the house of Yahweh, except the priests and the Levites because Yahweh has chosen them from among the children of Israel to serve in his house. They will enter because they are holy, for each of the people must do according to his duties toward Yahweh. 
7 And the Levites will surround the king all around, every man with his weapons in his hand, and whoever else enters the house will be put to death. And you will stay with the king wherever he goes. 
8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest had commanded. Each captain took his men, those who had to serve on the sabbath day and those who were not to serve on the sabbath day. For the priest Jehoiada had not exempted any of the divisions. 
9 And Jehoiada the priest gave to the captains of hundreds the spears and shields, large and small, that had belonged to king David and which were in the house of God. 
10 And Jehoiada caused all the people [the Levites and the priests serving as guards] to stand from the right side of the house of Yahweh to the left side, near the altar and near the house, all around the king. And each had his weapon in his hand.
11 Then Jehoiada brought out the king's son, and did put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony. And they made him king, for Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and they said: God save the king.
12 And when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people at the house of Yahweh.
13 And she looked and behold, the king was standing near his pillar at the entrance of the house, and the captains and the trumpeters was near the king, and all the people of the land were rejoicing, and they were sounding trumpets, and the singers were leading the songs of praise with the musical instruments. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and shouted: Treason, treason.
14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of the hundreds who were over the assembly, and said to them: Take Athaliah outside this zone, and kill with the sword whoever follows her. For the priest had said: Do not kill her in the house of Yahweh.
15 Then they did put hands on her, and she went by the way of the entrance of the horses of the king's house, and they killed her there.
16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king, to declare that they should be the people of Yahweh. 
17 Then all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and they demolished it, and they destroyed its altars and its images, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal in front of the place of the altars. 
18 And Jehoiada appointed guards over the house of Yahweh. They were under the hand of the priest and the Levites whom David had divided into categories for the service of the house of Yahweh, in order to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing according to the ordinances of David. 
19 And he placed the gatekeepers at the gates of the house of Yahweh, so that no one who was unclean in any way could enter.
20 And Jehoiada took the captains of hundreds, and the noble men, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and he caused the king to come down from the house of Yahweh. And they went through the upper gate of the king's house, and set the king on the throne of the kingdom. 
21 Then all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet, after they had killed Athaliah with the sword.
