1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty five years in Jerusalem. 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had cast out before the children of Israel. 
3 For he turned back [in the matter of bringing the people near to Yahweh] and rebuilt the high places that Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and he did set up altars for Baalim and made groves, and he worshiped all the armies of the heaven and served them. 
4 He also built altars to honor false gods in the house of Yahweh, although this temple was the place of which Yahweh had said: I will put my name in Jerusalem forever. 
5 And he built altars for all the armies of the heaven in the two courtyards of the house of Yahweh. 
6 And he burned his sons for an offering to his false gods in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and utilized divination and bewitchment and sorcery, and appointed the soothsayers and those who communicate with the dead. He did more and more evil in the sight of Yahweh to anger him.
7 And he made a graven image of a grove that he had made, and did put it in the temple of which Yahweh had said to David and to his son Solomon: I will put my name forever in this house of Jerusalem which is the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. 
8 And I will no more cause the feet of Israel to wander out of the land that I gave to their fathers, if only they take care to do all that I have commanded them according to all the law and the statutes and the judgments given to them by the hand of Moses. 
9 But Manasseh caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go astray, and to do more wickedly than the nations whom Yahweh had destroyed before the children of Israel. 
10 And Yahweh spoke to Manasseh and to his people [by prophets], but they did not want to pay attention. 
11 Therefore Yahweh brought against them the captains of the army of the king of Assyria, and they took Manasseh in chains and bonded him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon [or rather to Nineveh]. 
12 And when Manasseh was in distress, he besought Yahweh his God, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. 
13 And Manasseh prayed to him, and Yahweh was moved because of this. And Yahweh heard the supplications of Manasseh, and caused him to return at Jerusalem into his kingdom. And then Manasseh understood that Yahweh he was God. 
14 And after these events Manasseh built an outer wall for the city of David, on the west side of Gihon in the valley, to the entrance at the fish gate and around Ophel. And he raised the wall very high, and put captains of war in all the fortified cities of Judah. 
15 And Manasseh removed [most of] the strange gods and the image from the house of Yahweh, and all the altars that he had built on the mountain of the house of Yahweh [namely on the elevated place where this house was located] and in Jerusalem, and he threw them out of the city. 
16 And Manasseh repaired the altar of Yahweh, and offered peace offerings and thanks offerings on it, and commanded Judah to serve Yahweh the God of Israel. 
17 Nevertheless the people continued to offer sacrifices in the high places, but only to Yahweh their God [that is to say by respecting the method and especially the different categories of the offerings indicated in the law]. 
18 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers [prophets] who spoke to him in the name of Yahweh the God of Israel, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel. 
19 And his prayer, and how he besought God, and all his sins and his transgressions, and the places where he built the high places and set up groves and graven images, those things that he had done before he humbled himself, they are written in the book of the seers. 
20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And Amon his son reigned in his stead. 
21 Amon was twenty two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. 
22 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as Manasseh his father had done. And Amon sacrificed to all the remaining images that Manasseh his father had made [he had caused to make them before he humbled himself], and served them. 
23 And he humbled not himself before Yahweh, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself, but this Amon transgressed more and more. 
24 And his servants conspired against him, and killed him in his own house. 
25 But the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against king Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.
