1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his place. And the land was quiet for ten years in the days of Asa. 
2 And Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of Yahweh his God. 
3 For Asa removed the strange altars and the high places, and broke the idols and cut down the groves. 
4 And Asa commanded Judah to seek Yahweh the God of their fathers, and to do [all] the law and the commandments. 
5 And he removed the high places and the images from all the cities of Judah. ​​Therefore the kingdom was quiet before him. 
6 And Asa built strong cities in Judah because the land was at rest and there was no war against him in those years. For Yahweh had given him rest. 
7 Therefore Asa said to [the people of] Judah: Let us build these cities and surround them with walls. Let us make towers, and gates, and bars in the gates, since there is still space available in our land. For we have sought Yahweh our God, and he has given us rest on every side because we have sought him. So they built, and they prospered. 
8 And Asa had an army of three hundred thousand men of Judah who bore shield and spear, and two hundred and eighty thousand men of Benjamin who bore shield and drew bow. All these soldiers were valiant men. 
9 Then Zerah of Ethiopia went out against Judah with an army of one million men and three hundred chariots, and he came to Mareshah. 
10 And Asa went out to fight against Zerah, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah near Mareshah. 
11 And Asa cried to Yahweh his God and said: Yahweh, you alone can help the weak and the strong. Help us, O Yahweh our God. For we rely on you, and it is in your name that we have come against this multitude. O Yahweh, let not man prevail against you, because you are our God. 
12 So Yahweh smote the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled. 
13 And Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as Gerar, and they killed so many Ethiopians that they could not regroup to form an army again. For they were destroyed before Yahweh and before his army. And Asa and his people took a very great spoil. 
14 And they smote all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of Yahweh had fallen on the people who lived there. And they plundered all the cities, and the spoil was great.
15 And they also smote the camps of the shepherds, and carried away an abundance of sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.
