1 I Paul, I entreat you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who am humble in appearance when I am among you and full of boldness towards you when I am far away.
2 What I ask of you is to ensure that, when I am present among you, I do not have to be bold with that confidence with which I intend to be bold toward some who consider us as if we were walking according to the flesh. 
3 For although we walk in the flesh, we do not wage war according to the flesh. 
4 For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but powerful through God to overthrow strongholds. 
5 We are casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and we are bringing every thought that is into captivity to the obedience of Christ. 
6 And we are ready to punish any disobedience, after you have become fully obedient. 
7 You look at things according to their appearance. If anyone is confident that he belongs to Christ, then let him acknowledge that just as he belongs to Christ, so we also belong to Christ.
8 For although I may boast a little too much about our authority which the Lord has given us for your edification and not for your destruction, I am not ashamed of it. 
9 But I do not want you to think that I am merely trying to frighten you by my letters. 
10 For they say: His letters are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible. 
11 Let the one who speaks in this way consider that as we are in word by our letters when we are absent, so also we are in our deed when we are present. 
12 But we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who commend themselves. For they are without understanding, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves with themselves. 
13 For we will not glory beyond all measure. On the contrary, we will take as measure the limits of the portion that God has assigned to us, and inside which we have been able to reach you. 
14 For we are not in the process of exceeding our limits, as if it were not us who had brought the knowledge of Christ to you. For we are indeed the ones who have come to you with the gospel of Christ. 
15 So we are not boasting beyond our limits, we do not boast about the labors of others. And we have the hope that, as your faith increases, we will be greatly expanded among you, according to the limits assigned to us. 
16 So as you may preach the gospel even in the regions beyond you, without boasting about the work already done within the limits assigned to others. 
17 Let the one who glories glory in the Lord. 
18 For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.
