1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. 
2 Enlarge your hearts for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have defrauded no one. 
3 I do not say this to condemn you. For I have already said that you are in our hearts, and we are ready to live and die with you. 
4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my joy about you. I am filled with comfort, I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction. 
5 For when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest because we were afflicted in every side. We were fighting ouside [our bodies], and fearing inside [our bodies]. 
6 But God, who comforts those who are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus. 
7 And not only by his coming, but also by the comfort that he have received from you, when he told us about your longing, your sorrow, your zeal for me. For it greatly increased my joy. 
8 For although I grieved you with my letter [which I had sent to you], I do not regret it. 
9 I felt embarrassed when I saw that my letter had grieved you, even though you have been grieved only for a short time. But now I rejoice, not because you have been grieved, but because your grief has led to repentance. For you have been grieved in a godly way, and therefore you have not been hurt by us.
10 For godly sorrow produces repentance leading to salvation, a repentance that one never repents of, but worldly sorrow produces death. 
11 For behold, see what earnestness this godly sorrow has produced in you. What justification, what indignation, what fear, what ardent desire, what zeal, what punishment. You have shown in all things that you were pure in this matter. 
12 The main reason I wrote that letter was not because of the one who did the wrong or the one who was hurt, but in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed among you in the sight of God. 
13 Therefore we have been comforted. And in our comfort we were much more delighted by the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of you. 
14 I had bragged about you to Titus, and you have not embarrassed me. We have always spoken truthfully to you in all things, and now what we told Titus about you has been shown to be true. 
15 And his affection for you is all the greater as he remembers the obedience of you all, and how you received him with fear and trembling. 
16 I rejoice that in everything I can have confidence in you.
