1 So I have resolved within myself that when I return to you, it will no longer be to sadden you. 
2 For if I grieve you, who then is there to make me glad, except the one whom I have grieved. 
3 Now regarding what I have just written, I say it so that you behave in such a way that when I arrive, I do not find reasons to be saddened by you who should give me joy. And I have in you all this confidence that my joy is also the joy of you all [that is to say, I know that we are delighted by the same things because I know that you also love our Lord Jesus.] 
4 For I had written you a letter in great affliction and anguish of heart, and with many tears. And it was not to grieve you [without any other purpose], but so that you might know the abundant love that I have for you. 
5 If anyone has caused sorrow [that is to say, the one whom I asked you to punish appropriately], he has not caused sorrow to me, but to all of you [who interact with him]. And it is appropriate to say that he has afflicted all of you in at least a certain way, because there is no need to exaggerate anything. 
6 The punishment inflicted on him by the majority is sufficient for such a man. 
7 So that you should rather forgive and comfort him [since he has repented], lest he be overwhelmed by an excessive sorrow. 
8 Therefore I urge you to show him that you love him. 
9 For I had also written to you concerning him in order to find out, by putting you to the test, whether you are obedient in everything. 
10 And now, to whom you forgive something, I forgive too. And what I have also forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, I have forgiven it because of you and in the presence of Christ. 
11 So that we may not be outwitted by Satan, for we are not unaware of his schemes.
12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ, and when a door was opened to me in the Lord. 
13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus my brother. Therefore I said goodbye to them, and I went into Macedonia. 
14 But thanks be to God, who always causes us to triumph in Christ, and who uses us to manifest the knowledge of his person in every place like one spread a pleasant perfume. 
15 For we are to God the pleasing aroma of Christ, both among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing.
16 To those who perishing, this perfume smells like death and it brings them death. To those who are being saved, it has the sweet smell of life and it brings them life. So who is good enough to do this work. 
17 For we are not like so many other people who willingly alter the meaning of the word of God in order to achieve their own goals. But in sincerity, as from [the spirit] God, we speak in Christ in the sight of God [the creator].
