1 I am coming to you for the third time. Every matter will be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. 
2 When I was with you the second time, I gave a warning to those who had sinned. And now that I am absent, I am giving another warning to them and to anyone else who has sinned: When I come to you again, I will not spare you. 
3 Since you are seeking a proof that Christ speaks in me, he who is not weak toward you, but is powerful in you. 
4 For he was crucified in his weakness, but he is now alive by the power of God. And we also are weak in him, but we will live with him by the power of God toward you. 
5 Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith or not. Test your own selves. Do you not realize that Jesus Christ is in you. Otherwise, you may have been rejected [by him]. 
6 But I hope that you will acknowledge that we are not rejected [by him]. 
7 And now we pray to God that you do no evil. And it is not that we will be approved by Christ because of the behavior that you will have [since we have made other disciples elsewhere], but it is so that you may behave honorably, so that it is no longer necessary for us to constantly give you warnings to all of you, and thus we may appear as being rejected from among you. 
8 For we have no power against the truth, but only for the truth. 
9 For we will rejoice to become weak [among all of you] if you become strong. And that is why we pray for your perfection [that is to say, for the perfection of the church that we have created among you]. 
10 Therefore I write these things while being absent, so that when I am present, I may not have to resort to harsh measures, according to the authority that the Lord has given me for your edification and not for your destruction. 
11 And now, brothers, receive my peace and perfect yourselves. Be encouraged, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. 
12 Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
13 All the saints greet you. 
14 May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all.
