1 It is not good for me to boast. Nevertheless I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
2 I know a man in Christ who was snatched up to the third heaven fourteen years ago, I do not know if it was in his body, I do not know if it was outside his body, God knows. 
3 And I know that such a man was snatched into Paradise, I do not know if it was in his body or without his body, God knows. 
4 And he heard ineffable words which it is not lawful for a man to utter. 
5 I will boast about such a man, but I will not boast about myself, except concerning my weaknesses. 
6 For if I wanted to say more about myself, then I would not be a fool because I would be telling the truth. But I refrain from doing so, so that no one may have a higher opinion of me than what he sees in me or what he hears from me. 
7 In order to prevent me from being swollen with pride, because of the excellence of the revelations that I have received, a thorn has been placed in my flesh, an angel of Satan to torment me and prevent me from becoming proud. 
8 I besought the Lord three times to take it away from me. 
9 But he said to me, 'My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness'. Therefore I will much more gladly boast about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest on me. 
10 This is why I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in need, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, it is then that I am strong. 
11 I have talked like a fool, because you have compelled to do it. You are the ones who should have said good things about me. For I was in no way inferior to the apostles par excellence, although I am nothing. 
12 The evidences of the fact that I am an apostle of Christ have been manifested among you by an unfailing patience, and by signs, and by wonders, and by great deeds. 
13 In what way have you been treated less favorably than the other churches, except in that I have not been a burden to you. Forgive me for this wrong. 
14 Behold I am ready to come to you for the third time, and I will not be a burden to you. For it is not your goods that I seek, it is you yourselves. The children ought not to save up for their parents, but the parents for their children. 
15 As for me, I will spend very willingly and also spend myself for your souls, even at the risk of being loved less by you while I am loving you more. 
16 Yes, I have not been a burden to you, but I have acted like a clever man and I have been cunning to catch you. 
17 Have I profited from you by any of those whom I sent to you. 
18 I have asked Titus to come to you, and I have sent a brother with him. Has Titus desired anything from you for ourselves [and not for the other churches]. Have we not walked in the same spirit, in the same footsteps. 
19 Perhaps you have been thinking all this time that we are justifying ourselves to you. But we are speaking in Christ and in the sight of God, and all these things, dearly beloved, are for your edification. 
20 For I fear that, when I come, I will not find you such as I would like, and that I myself will be found by you such as you would not like. For I fear finding quarrels, jealousy, animosities, intrigues, backbiting, whisperings, pride, tumults. 
21 I fear that when I come, my God will humble me again regarding you, and that I will be grieved over many of those who have sinned previously and who have not repented of the impurity or fornication or dissoluteness in which they have indulged.
