1 Therefore, having this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not lose courage. 
2 We reject the shameful things that are done in secret, and we do not act deceitfully, and we do not distort the word of God. But by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. 
3 And if our gospel seems completely veiled to a person, then that person is one of those who are perishing. 
4 They are those whose minds have been blinded by the god of this world, whether they are disbelievers or unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, he who is the image of God. 
5 For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus who is the Lord, and we ourselves are your servants for the sake of Jesus. 
6 For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness [when he was creating the world], has now caused his light to shine in our hearts by giving us the knowledge of the glory of God which is the face of Jesus Christ [since Jesus Christ is currently alive and we see his face inside his commandments]. 
7 And we have this treasure inside our corruptible bodies which are like earthen vessels, in order to acknowledge that this great power comes from God and not from ourselves. 
8 We are afflicted on every side, but we are not defeated. We are perplexed, but we do not despair. 
9 We are persecuted, but not forsaken. We are cast down, but not destroyed. 
10 We are always carrying in our bodies the sufferings that the Lord Jesus has experienced on the day of his death in the flesh, so that the life of Jesus [who had been raised from the dead] may also be manifested in our bodies. 
11 For we who live are always delivered to death for the sake of Jesus whom we serve, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. 
12 So then death is at work in us, but life in you. [That is to say, when we are dead in the flesh, we will live in you through the teachings that we have given you and which you will be putting into practice, as Christ Jesus is now alive in us.] 
13 And since we have the same spirit of faith that is expressed in this scripture, 'I have believed, and therefore I have spoken', we also believe, and therefore we speak. [Now this is a rephrasing, since the words only serve to convey a meaning. It may not have been said exactly in this way in the scriptures, but rather implied.] 
14 Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus from the dead will also raise us by Jesus, and will set us with you. 
15 For all things are for your sakes, so that the grace by multiplying may cause the thanksgivings of a greater number of persons to abound to the glory of God. 
16 Therefore we do not lose courage. Although we are wasting away according to our outward appearance, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. 
17 For our slight afflictions which will only last a short time, produce for us, beyond all measure, an eternal weight of glory. 
18 Since we do not turn our gaze toward the visible things, but toward the invisible things. For the things that are visible are temporary, but the things that are invisible are eternal.
