1 Then the king sent, and gathered all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem to him. 
2 And the king went up to the temple of Yahweh with all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and with the priests and the prophets, and with all the people from the least to the greatest. And he read [he caused to read] in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that had been found in the temple of Yahweh. 
3 And the king stood near the pillar and made a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh and to keep with all their heart and with all their soul his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statuts, so that they might perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people entered the covenant. 
4 Then the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring out of the temple of Yahweh all the utensils that had been made for Baal, and for the grove, and for all the armies of the heaven. And he burned them [he caused to burn them] outside Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel. 
5 And did put an end to the work of all those whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places around Jerusalem, and also all those who burned incense to Baal, and to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the armies of the heaven. 
6 And he brought the grove out of the temple of Yahweh and did put it outside Jerusalem in the valley of Kidron, and burned it in the valley of Kidron, and beat it to dust, and threw that dust on the graves of the children of the people [who used to worship this abomination]. 
7 And he broke down the houses of the sodomites that were near the house of Yahweh and where the women wove curtains for the grove. 
8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba. And he destroyed the high places of the gates, namely those that were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, at the left side of the gate of the city. 
9 And he did not allow the priests who had served at the high places to come and serve at the altar of the temple of Yahweh in Jerusalem, but they did eat unleavened bread among their brothers in the temple of Yahweh. 
10 And Josiah defiled Topheth which was in the valley of the children of Hinnom, so that no one might go there any more to burn his son or his daughter as an offering to the false god Molech. 
11 And he took away the horses that [some of] the kings of Judah had dedicated to the god of the sun at the entrance of the temple of Yahweh, near the room of Nathan-melech the eunuch who was ruler of the suburbs, and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire. 
12 And he broke down the altars that were on the roof of the room of Ahaz and that [some of] the kings of Judah had made, and the altars that Manasseh had made in the two courtyards of the temple of Yahweh. He took them away from there and reduced them to dust, and threw that dust in the valley Kidron. 
13 Moreover the king defiled the high places that were before Jerusalem on the right side of the mount of corruption, and that Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon. 
14 And he broke the pillars in pieces, and did cut down the groves and filled their place with human bones [of people who worshiped there]. 
15 And concerning the altar that was at Bethel in the high place made by Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin, Josiah broke down this altar and also the high place. And he burned the high place and reduced it to dust, and burned the grove. 
16 And Josiah turned himself and saw the graves that were in the mountain, and sent to take the bones out of the graves, and burned them on the altar and defiled it according to the word of Yahweh which the man of God had proclaimed, namely the one who proclaimed these words. 
17 Then Josiah said, What is this monument that I see. And the men of the city answered him, It is the sepulcher of the man of God who had come from Judah and had spoken these things that you have done to the altar of Bethel. 
18 Then Josiah said: Do not disturb him, let no one move his bones. So they did not touch his bones and the bones of the prophet who was of Samaria. 
19 And Josiah also removed all the houses of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria and which the kings of Israel had made to provoke Yahweh. Josiah did to them according to all the acts that he had done at Bethel. 
20 And Josiah killed all the priests of the high places of Samaria. He killed them on those altars, and he burned men's bones on the altars. And he returned to Jerusalem. 
21 Then the king commanded all the people by saying: Celebrate the passover of Yahweh your God, as it is written in this book of the covenant. 
22 There was no passover like this one since the days of the judges who judged Israel, and in all the days of the kings of Israel and of the kings of Judah. 
23 It was in the eighteenth year of king Josiah that this passover had been celebrated to Yahweh in Jerusalem. 
24 Moreover Josiah took away those who communicate with the dead, and the soothsayers, and the images, and the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, in order to perform the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the temple of Yahweh. 
25 Before Josiah there was no king like him who turned to Yahweh with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his strength, according to all the law of Moses. And after him there arose no king like him. 
26 Nevertheless Yahweh did not turn away from the fierceness of his great anger that was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations that Manasseh had done to provoke him. 
27 For Yahweh had said: I will also put Judah out of my sight, as I have put away Israel. And I will cast off this city which I have chosen, namely Jerusalem, and the house of which I had said: My name will be there. 
28 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
29 While Josiah was king, Pharaoh Necoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates, and king Josiah went out to fight Pharaoh. And [the men of] Pharaoh killed Josiah at Megiddo when he saw him. 
30 Then the servants of Josiah carried him away in a chariot in which he died, and they brought him from Megiddo to Jerusalem, and they buried him in his own sepulcher. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's stead. 
31 Jehoahaz was twenty three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
32 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his fathers had done. 
33 And Pharaoh Necoh did put him in chains at Riblah in the land of Hamath to end his reign in Jerusalem, and he imposed a tribute on the land of Jehoahaz of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 
34 And Pharaoh Necoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the stead of Josiah his father, and changed his name to Jehoiakim, and took Jehoahaz and brought him in Egypt where he died. 
35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, and he taxed the land to get this money according to the commandment of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, of every one according to his taxation, to give it to Pharaoh Necoh. 
36 Jehoiakim was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zebudah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah. 
37 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his fathers had done.
