1 In the second year of Joash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah began to reign. 
2 He was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem. 
3 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, but not like David his father. He did according to all that Joash his father had done. 
4 And the high places were not removed, and the people still offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places. 
5 And when the kingdom was established in his hand, he killed those of his servants who had killed the king his father. 
6 But he did not kill the children of the murderers, according to what is written in the book of the law of Moses in which Yahweh commanded by saying: The fathers will not be put to death for the children, and the children will not be put to death for the fathers, but each man will be put to death for his own sin. 
7 And [the army of] Amaziah killed ten thousand men of Edom in the valley of salt during the war. And he took Sela by war and called it Joktheel, and it is its name to this day. 
8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash [Joash] the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu king of Israel by saying: Come, and we will look one another in the face and fight. 
9 Then Jehoash the king of Israel sent messengers to Amaziah king of Judah by saying: The thistle that is in Lebanon sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon by saying, Give your daughter to my son to wife. And the wild beasts that was in Lebanon went and trampled the thistle. 
10 Your heart has become proud because you have smitten Edom. Now enjoy your glory and stay at home. Why should you undertake a provocation that will bring ruin to Judah and to you. [This is the personal point of view of Jehoash, because it is not exactly what is happening in the mind of Amaziah as it will be specified in the book of chronicles.] 
11 But Amaziah did not want to listen to Jehoash. So Jehoash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah saw one another in the face and fought at Beth-shemesh which belongs to Judah. 
12 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and they fled every man to his tent. 
13 And when they were at Beth-shemesh, Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah and son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, and Jehoash brought Amaziah to Jerusalem, and Jehoash destroyed a length of four hundred cubits of the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate. 
14 And he took all the gold and silver and all the utensils that were found [at that time] in the house of Yahweh, and in the treasures of the king's house, and the children who were held hostage there, and he returned to Samaria. 
15 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his valiant deeds, and how he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.  
16 And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and he was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. And Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead. 
17 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
18 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
19 And they made a conspiracy against Amaziah in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent men to pursue him to Lachish, and they killed him there. 
20 And they carried the corpse of Amaziah on horses, and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David. 
21 Then the people of Judah took Azariah [also called Uzziah] who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah. 
22 And after Amaziah had died and was buried with his fathers, Azariah built Elath and restored it to Judah. 
23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria. And Jeroboam reigned fifty one years. 
24 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, for he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
25 Nevertheless he restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the sea of the wilderness, according to the word of Yahweh the God of Israel that he had spoken by his servant Jonah the Prophet who was of Gath-hepher and who was the son of Amittai. 
26 For Yahweh saw the bitter and extreme affliction of Israel. For no one was spared in Israel, both slave or free, and no one was coming to their aid. 
27 For Yahweh had not yet resolved to perform the erasure of the name of Israel from under the heavens [not the population but the practices that characterize their existence and constitute their inheritance - this destruction had been announced to the wife of Jeroboam the son of Nebat by the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite]. Therefore he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash. 
28 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his valiant deeds, and how he fought, and how he restored Hamath which had belonged to Judah and Damascus [the portions of their territory which had belonged to Israel in the days of Solomon] to Israel, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son reigned in his stead.
