1 Jehoash [Joash] began to reign in the seventh year of Jehu, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Zibiah of Beersheba. 
2 And Jehoash did what was good in the sight of Yahweh during all the time when Jehoiada the priest was teaching him. 
3 But the high places did not disappear, for the people continued to offer sacrifices and to burn incense in the high places. 
4 And Jehoash said to the priests: All the silver of the dedicated things that are brought in the house of Yahweh, namely the money given by those who are counted, and the money that a man brings in the house of Yahweh to offer it willingly. 
5 Let the priests take it from them. Each priest will take it from the people whom he serves, and they will use it to repair the house wherever there is something to repair. 
6 But it happened that during the twenty third year of king Jehoash, the priests had still not repaired what was to be repaired in the temple. 
7 Then king Jehoash sent for Jehoiada the priest and the other priests, and he said to them: Why have you not yet repaired what should be repaired in the temple. Now therefore you will no longer receive any money from the people whom you serve, but only if you use it to repair the house. 
8 And the priests agreed to stop taking money from the people, but they also decided not to repair the decayed places of the temple. 
9 And the priest Jehoiada took a box, and pierced it in its lid, and placed it near the altar. He placed this box on the right side of the one who comes into the house of Yahweh. And the priests who kept the threshold of the temple did put in it all the money that was brought into the house of Yahweh. 
10 And at whatever time they saw that there was a lot of money in the box, then the secretary of the king came up with the high priest, and they counted the money that had been given to repair the house of Yahweh and did put it in bags. 
11 And they gave the money weighed into the hands of those who were responsible for the work in the house of Yahweh, and then the money was used to pay the carpenters and all the other builders who were performing the work in the house of Yahweh. 
12 Namely the masons and the hewers of stone. They also used the money to purchase timber and hewn stones to repair the decayed places of the house of Yahweh, and for all the expenses necessary to repair the temple. 
13 However this money that was brought at the house of Yahweh was not used to acquire new utensils for the house of Yahweh, such as silver cups, or snuffers, or instruments of music, or trumpets, or any vessel of gold, or any vessel of silver [as long as the repairs were incomplete]. 
14 For all this money was used for all the work that was done to repair the house of Yahweh [as long as the repairs were incomplete]. 
15 The supervisors who received this money to distribute it to the workers did not have to justify themselves, because they were trustworthy men. 
16 Meanwhile the surplus of money that was given for certain transgress offerings, and the money that had become a habit in those days for certain sin offerings, this was not brought into the house of Yahweh and it was for the priest. 
17 Then Hazael king of Syria came up and fought against Gath, and took it. And Hazael planned to go up against Jerusalem. 
18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the consecrated things that had been dedicated by Jehoshaphat, and by Jehoram [Joram], and by Ahaziah, his fathers the kings of Judah. And he also took what he had dedicated himself, and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of Yahweh and in the king's house, and he sent it to Hazael king of Syria. Therefore Hazael did not go up against Jerusalem [but his army had entered the land of Judah]. 
19 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Joash [Jehoash] and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
20 And his servants arose and made a conspiracy, and they killed Joash at the house of Millo on the way that goes down to Silla. 
21 For his servants Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer smote him, and he died. And the people buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.
