1 Now a woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] cried to Elisha by saying: Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared Yahweh. But he owed money to a man, and now the creditor has come to take my two sons and make them his slaves. 
2 Then Elisha said to her, What can I do for you. Tell me what you have at home. And she answered, Your handmaid has nothing at home except one cruse of oil. 
3 And he said: Go and borrow vessels from your neighbors around. Ask for empty vessels, and take as many as you can. 
4 And when you come in your house, you will close the door behind you and your sons. And you will pour out into all the those vessels, and put aside those that are full. 
5 So she departed from him, and closed the door behind her and her sons. And they brought her the vessels, and she poured out [from her only cruse of oil]. 
6 And while she was filling the last vessel, she said to her son, Bring me another vessel. And he said to her, There is no more vessels. And then the oil ceased. 
7 Then she went and told the man of God. And he said, Go and sell the oil, and pay your debt. And then you and your sons will use the remaining of the money to live. 
8 And on a day when Elisha came to Shunem, there was a noble woman who urged him to eat food in her house. And then whenever he came near that place, he went to her to eat food. 
9 And she said to her husband: Behold I know now that this man who comes here continually to eat is a holy man of God. 
10 Let us make a little room on the roof, I pray you. And we will put there for him a bed, and a table, and a seat, and a candlestick, so that he may relax there when he comes to us. 
11 And Elisha returned to Shunem, and he went in the upper room and relaxed there. 
12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite woman. And Gehazi called her, and she came and stood before him. 
13 And Elisha said to Gehazi, Tell her now: Behold you have had all this great care for us. Now therefore, what will we do for you. Is there anything to be spoken for you to the king or to the captain of the army. And she answered, I dwell among my own people [my inheritance in the sight of my God will be in the midst of the inheritance of my people]. 
14 And after that, Elisha said to Gehazi: What will we do for her. And Gehazi answered, She has no son and her husband is old. 
15 And Elisha said, Call her. And Gehazi called her, and she came and stood in the door. 
16 And Elisha said: At this season of the next year you will be holding your own son. And she said: No my lord, you the man of God, do not lie to your handmaid. 
17 And the woman conceived, and she bore a son at that same season of the following year, as Elisha had said to her. 
18 And the child grew. And it happened one day that he went out to his father and to the reapers. 
19 And he said to his father, My head, my head. And the father said to his servant, Carry him to his mother. 
20 And the servant took him and brought him to his mother. And the child sat on his mother's lap until noon, and then he died. 
21 Then she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and closed the door on him, and went out. 
22 Then she called her husband and said: I pray you to send me one of the servants and one of the donkeys, so that I may go quickly to the man of God and return. 
23 And he said, 'Why do you want to go to him today. It is neither a new moon nor a sabbath'. And she replied, 'All will be fine'. 
24 Then she saddled [caused to saddle] a donkey, and she said to her servant: Drive and go forward, do not stop on the way for me without me telling you. 
25 So she went and arrived to the man of God at the mount Carmel. And when the man of God saw her from afar, he said to Gehazi his servant: Behold the Shunammite. 
26 Run now to meet her, and say to her: Are you in good health, and is your husband in good health, and is the child in good health. And she replied [to Gehazi]: We are in good health. 
27 And when she came to the man of God on the mountain, she grabbed his feet. And Gehazi came near to thrust her away, but the man of God said: Let her alone, because her soul is in bitterness. But Yahweh has hidden it from me, and did not make it known to me. 
28 Then she said: Have I desired a son from my lord. Have I not said, Do not deceive me. 
29 Then Elisha said to Gehazi: Gird up your waist and take my staff in your hand, and go on the way. If you meet someone then do not greet him, and if someone greets you then do not answer him. And you will put my staff on the face of the child. 
30 And the mother of the child said: As Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, I will not leave you. Therefore Elisha got up and followed her. 
31 And Gehazi had gone before them, and he had put the staff on the face of the child, but there had been neither voice nor a sign of awareness [from the child]. Therefore Gehazi had returned to meet Elisha and had told him the thing by saying: The child has not awoken. 
32 And Elisha came into the house and behold, the child was dead and he was laid on his bed. 
33 And Elisha entered [his room] and closed the door on both, and he prayed to Yahweh. 
34 And then Elisha went up [on the bed], and laid himself on the child. And Elisha did put his mouth on his mouth, and his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands. And Elisha stretched himself on the child, and the child's flesh warmed. 
35 And Elisha went from him, and walked here and there in the house, and then he went up and stretched himself on the child. And the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes. 
36 Then Elisha called Gehazi and said, Call this Shunammite. And Gehazi called her, and she came to Elisha. And Elisha said: Take your son. 
37 And she came and threw herself at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground. Then she took her son and went out. 
38 And Elisha returned to Gilgal. Now there was a famine in the land, and the children of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] dwelt before Elisha. And Elisha said to his servant: Put the big pot on the fire, and cook a soup for the children of the prophets. 
39 And one of them went out into the field to pick herbs. And he found a wild vine, and he gathered its wild gourds to fill his garment. Then he returned and cut these fruit into pieces, and put them in the pot of the soup because they did not know what kind of fruit it was. 
40 So they poured out [the soup] so that the men might eat. But when they began to eat of the soup, they cried out and said: O you the man of God, death is in the pot. And they could not eat of it. 
41 Then Elisha said, Bring flour. And Elisha threw it into the pot and said, Pour out [the soup] now so that the people may eat. And the soup was no longer bad. 
42 Now a man came from Baal-shalishah and brought bread of the first fruits to the man of God, twenty loaves of barley, and also fresh ears of grain in his bag. Then Elisha said: Give it to the people so that they may eat. 
43 And his servant replied: How could I give this thing to a hundred men. And Elisha said again: Give it to the people so that they may eat. For thus speaks Yahweh, They will eat, and there will be a remaining. 
44 So he set it before them and they ate, and there was a remaining, according to the word of Yahweh.
