1 In the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem. And they encamped in front of the city, and they built forts all around. 
2 And the city was besieged until the eleventh year of king Zedekiah. 
3 And on the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was sore in the city so that there was no food for the people of the land. 
4 Then the army of Nebuchadnezzar entered the city [at night]. And all the soldiers of Jerusalem fled at night by the way of the gate that was between the two walls that was near the king's garden. The Chaldeans were positioned in different places all around the city, but the king and his men escaped by the way of the wilderness. 
5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the Zedekiah and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all the army of Zedekiah scattered from him. 
6 Then they took Zedekiah and carried him to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they judged him there. 
7 And they killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. And then they put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bonded him in chains, and carried him to Babylon. 
8 Then Nebuzaradan the servant of the king of Babylon who was the chief of the guard entered Jerusalem. It was on the seventh day of the fifth month, which was in the nineteenth year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. 
9 And Nebuzaradan burned the temple of Yahweh, and the king's house, and all the [great] houses of Jerusalem. He burned all the great houses with fire. 
10 Then the whole army of the Chaldeans who was with the chief of the guard demolished the walls of Jerusalem all around. 
11 And Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard carried away captive the remaining of the people who were in the city, those who had surrendered to the king of Babylon and the remnant of the multitude. 
12 But the chief of the guard left some of the poor of the land to take care of all that grew in the fields. 
13 And concerning the pillars of brass that were in the temple of Yahweh, and the bases, and the brazen sea that was in the temple of Yahweh, the Chaldeans broke them and carried the brass to Babylon. 
14 And they took away the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons, and all the utensils of brass that were used in the temple. 
15 So the chief of the guard took away the braziers, and the basins, and all that was of gold, and all that was of silver. 
16 And the two pillars, and the sea and its bases, those things that Solomon had made for the temple of Yahweh. The brass from all these things was too heavy to be weighed.  
17 The height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and there was a capital of brass at its top. And the height of the capital was three [five] cubits, with the network and pomegranates on the capital all around, all of brass. And it was the same for the second pillar, with the network. 
18 And the chief of the guard took Seraiah the high priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door of the temple. 
19 And in the city he took an eunuch who had the supervision of the men of war, and five men of the king’s advisors who were found in the city, and the secretary of the captain of the army who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city. 
20 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
21 And the king of Babylon smote them and killed them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of their land. 
22 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon left a remnant of the people in the land, and he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan ruler over them. 
23 And when all the captains of the army with their men [who had escaped when the king Zedekiah was taken] heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. There were Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men. 
24 And Gedaliah swore to them and to their men, and said to them: Do not be afraid of the servants of the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and everything will be fine for you. 
25 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elisham who was of the royal seed came in the seventh month with ten men. And they killed Gedaliah, and also the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah. 
26 Then all the people who were there, from the least to the greatest, and the captains of the army, they arose and went to Egypt because they were afraid of the Chaldeans. 
27 And in the thirty seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, on the twenty seventh day of the twelfth month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon was in the first year of his reign. And on that day Evil-merodach lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah by bringing him out of prison. 
28 And Evil-merodach spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon [Evil-merodach gave him precedence]. 
29 And Evil-merodach changed the prison garments of Jehoiachin, and from that time Jehoiachin continually ate at the table of the king all the days of his life. 
30 And his allowance was a continual allowance given him by the king, every day an allowance, all the days of his life.
