1 Afterwards Elisha said to the woman whose son he had revived: Arise and go, you and your household, and sojourn wherever you can. For Yahweh has called a famine which will come on the land for seven years. 
2 And the woman arose and acted according to the word of the man of God. And she went with her household, and they sojourned in the land of the Philistines for seven years. 
3 And the woman returned from the land of the Philistines at the end of the seven years, and she went and entreated the king for her house and for her land. 
4 Now the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God and said: Tell me, I pray you, all the great things that Elisha has done. 
5 And while Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had restored one dead to life, behold the woman whose son Elisha had revived came to the king and implored him for her house and her land. Then Gehazi said: O my lord the king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life. 
6 And when the king inquired of the woman about this story, she told him the facts. Then the king appointed an eunuch for her case and said to him: Restore all that belonged to this woman, and the value of all the fruits of her field since the day that she left the land until now. 
7 Afterwards Elisha went to Damascus. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick, and he was informed by saying: The man of God has come here. 
8 And the king said to [his servant] Hazael: Take a gift in your hand, and go to meet the man of God, and inquire of Yahweh through him by saying: Will I recover of this sickness. 
9 So Hazael went to meet Elisha, and took with him the gift which was made of every good thing of Damascus and did put it on forty camels. And Hazael came and stood before Elisha, and said: Your son Ben-hadad the king of Syria has sent me to you by saying, Will I recover of this sickness. 
10 And Elisha said to him: Go and tell him, You will recover. But know for yourself that Yahweh has shown me that he will surely die. 
11 And Elisha stared at Hazael for a long time until Hazael was ashamed, and then the man of God wept. 
12 And Hazael said, Why is my lord weeping. And Elisha answered: Because I know the evil that you will do to the children of Israel. For you will set fire to their fortified cities, and you will kill their young men with the sword, and you will fling their little children to crush them against the stones, and you will split the bellies of their pregnant women. 
13 Then Hazael said, But your servant is just a dog therefore how can I do such a great thing. And Elisha answered, Yahweh has shown me that you will be king of Syria. 
14 Then Hazael departed from Elisha and came to his master. And Ben-hadad said to him, What have Elisha said to you. And Hazael answered, He has told me that you will recover. 
15 And Hazael took a thick cloth on the next day, and dipped it in water, and did put it on the face of Ben-hadad to choke him, and Ben-hadad died. Then Hazael reigned in his stead. 
16 Now Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah began to reign [alone] in the fifth year of Jehoram [Joram] the son of Ahab king of Israel.  
17 Jehoram was thirty two years old when he began to reign [alone], and he reigned eight [alone] years in Jerusalem. 
18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight Yahweh. 
19 However Yahweh did not want to destroy Judah because of David his servant. For he had promised David that he will give a lamp to him and to his children [all his spiritual children, those who imitate his behavior] forever. 
20 In those days Edom rebelled from under the hand of Judah, and they made a king over themselves. 
21 Therefore Jehoram went to Zair, he and all his chariots. And he arose by night and smote the Edomites who had surrounded him, him and the captains of his chariots, and the soldiers of Jehoram fled to their tents. 
22 So Edom has been free from under the hand of Judah to this day. And Libnah also rebelled at that time. 
23 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoram, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
24 And Jehoram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
25 In the twelfth year of Joram [Jehoram] the son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. 
26 Ahaziah was twenty two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri king of Israel. 
27 And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, like the house of Ahab. For he was a son in law of the house of Ahab. 
28 And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram. 
29 And king Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.
