1 Then Yahweh sent Nathan to David. And Nathan came to David and said to him: There were two men in a city, one was rich and the other poor. 
2 And the rich man had exceedingly many sheep and oxen. 
3 And the poor man had nothing at all, except a little sheep which he had bought. And he fed her, and she grew up at home with his children, and she ate of his own morsels and drank from his own cup, and she slept on his chest, and she was to him as his daughter. 
4 And a traveler arrived at the rich man's house. And the rich man would not touch his own sheep or his own oxen to prepare a meal for the traveler who had come to his house. And the rich man took the poor man's sheep and prepared it for the man who had come to his house. 
5 Then David's anger was kindled violently against the rich man, and he said to Nathan: As Yahweh is alive, the man who has done this thing is worthy to die. 
6 And he will restore four sheep because he has done this thing and because he has been merciless. 
7 Then Nathan said to David, You are that man [and the traveler is the evil spirit who temporarily took possession of you to make you act like this]. And thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: I have anointed you king over Israel and saved you from the hand of Saul. 
8 And I have given you the power to use his household and his wives as you wish, and I have given you the house of Israel and of Judah [all the people there]. And if it had been too little then I would have added more. 
9 Why then have you despised the commandment of Yahweh [which commands you to love your neighbor as yourself, since in this matter you have neglected the spirit and relied on your power]. For you have done what is evil in the sight of Yahweh. You have killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword and have taken his wife to make her your wife, for you have killed him with the sword of the children of Ammon. 
10 Now therefore the sword will never depart from your house. For you have despised me [I Yahweh the spirit] by taking the wife of Uriah the Hittite and using her as your wife and also by killing him with the sword later [For it is how she has become your wife]. 
11 Thus says Yahweh: Behold I will bring evil against you out of your own house [just like you the king have raised your sword against a servant of your own kingdom]. Moreover I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to another who will copulate with them at the sight of this sun. 
12 For you have acted secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. 
13 Then David said to Nathan, I have sinned against Yahweh. And Nathan said to David: Yahweh also has forgiven your sin, and you will not die. [Yahweh will not erase the useful part of your legacy.]
14 But by this deed you have caused the enemies of Yahweh to blaspheme, therefore the child who is born to you from this event will surely die. 
15 And Nathan went to his house. And Yahweh struck the child whom Uriah's wife had borne to David, and the child was sick. 
16 And David besought God for the child. And David fasted, and went in, and spent the night lying on the ground. 
17 Then the elders of his house arose and come to David, to cause him to raise from the ground. But David would not, neither did he eat anything with them. 
18 And on the seventh day the child died. And David's servants were afraid to tell him that the child has died, for they said: Behold we spoke to him while the child was still alive, and he did not hear our voice. So if we dare to tell him that the child is dead, then he will grieve much more. 
19 And David saw that his servants were whispering together, and he understood that the child has died. Therefore David said to his servants, Is the child dead. And they answered, He is dead. 
20 Then David got up from the ground, and washed himself, and anointed himself, and changed his apparel, and went to the house of Yahweh and worshiped, and then he came to his own house. And when he asked, then they set food before him and he ate. 
21 Then his servants said to him: What does this way of acting mean. You fasted and wept when the child was alive, but you get up and eat  now when the child is dead. 
22 And David answered: While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept because I said, Who knows if Yahweh will not pity me so that the child may live. 
23 But now that the child is dead, why should I fast. Can I bring him back. I will go to him, but he will not come back to me. 
24 And David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and he went to her and copulated with her. And she bore a son and David called his name Solomon, and Yahweh loved Solomon.
25 And Yahweh sent word by Nathan the Prophet and Nathan called his name Jedidiah, because Yahweh loved him. 
26 And Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the city of the kingdom. 
27 Therefore Joab sent messengers to David by saying: I have fought against Rabbah and I have taken its city of waters. 
28 Now therefore gather the remaining of the army together, and besiege the main city and take it, lest the victory be attributed to me. 
29 So David gathered all the army together and went against Rabbah. And he besieged it and took it. 
30 And David took their king's crown from his head. The crown weighed a talent of gold and was adorned with precious stones, and it was placed on David's head. And David took a very large spoil from the city. 
31 And David brought out the people of the city and made them work with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes of iron, and in brick-kiln. He did the same thing to all the cities of the children of Ammon. And then David and all the army went back to Jerusalem.
