1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said: Behold we are your bones and your flesh. 
2 In the past when Saul was our king, it was you who brought Israel in and out. And Yahweh has said to you: You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will be a captain over Israel. 
3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and king David made a covenant with them at Hebron before Yahweh, and they anointed David king over Israel. 
4 David was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years. 
5 In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty three years over all Israel and Judah. 
6 And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites who were the inhabitants of the land. And the Jebusites said to David, You will not enter here, for even the blind and the lame who are among us will be able to stop you. So they thought that David was not strong enough to defeat them. 
7 But David captured the stronghold of Zion. It is the city of David. 
8 And David had said on that day: Who will go up through the watercourse and smite the Jebusites, this lame and blind people who is hated by the soul of David. And from this event came the proverb: The blind and the lame will not come into the house [namely these Jebusites will not come near the house of our God which will contain the tabernacle built by Moses. Now the temple of God that Solomon actually built later was located on a piece of land that David purchased from a Jebusite after these events, and God wanted it that way because he does not like the contempt of people but only of behaviors]. 
9 So David dwelt in the fortress which he called the city of David. And David made buildings all around, from Millo and inward. 
10 And David became greater and greater, for Yahweh the God of armies was with him. 
11 And Hiram the king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and stonemasons, and they built a house for David. 
12 And David knew that Yahweh had firmly established him as king over Israel, and that Yahweh had exalted the kingdom of David because of his people Israel. 
13 And David took more concubines and wives when he was in Jerusalem, where he had come from Hebron. And more sons and daughters were born to David. 
14 And these are the names of the sons who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon. 
15 And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia. 
16 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet. 
17 And when the Philistines heard that the people had anointed David king over Israel, then all the Philistines came up to seek David. And when David heard it, then he went down to the fortress. 
18 And the Philistines arrived and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 
19 And David inquired of Yahweh by saying: Will I go up against the Philistines, will you deliver them into my hand. And Yahweh said to David: Go up, for I will certainly deliver the Philistines into your hand. 
20 Then David came to Baal-perazim, and smote them there. Then he said, Yahweh has pushed my enemies before me like waters that escape through breaches. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal-perazim. 
21 And they left their idols there, and David and his men burned those things. 
22 And the Philistines came again and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 
23 And David consulted Yahweh, and Yahweh said: You will not go up. But turn around them from behind, and come on them opposite the mulberry trees. 
24 And when you hear the sound of footsteps on the tops of the mulberry trees, then hurry up and attack them because it is Yahweh who walks before you to smite the army of the Philistines. 
25 And David did as Yahweh commanded him, and he defeated the Philistines from Geba to Gezer.
