1 Afterward David inquired of Yahweh by saying: Will I go up into one of the cities of Judah. And Yahweh answered him: Go up. And David said: Where will I go. And Yahweh answered: In Hebron. 
2 So David went up there with his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail of Carmel who had been the wife of Nabal. 
3 And David also brought up the men who were with him, each man with his household, and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron. 
4 Then the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David that it was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul. 
5 And David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead and said to them: Be blessed of Yahweh for the kindness that you have shown to Saul your lord, because you have buried him. 
6 And now may Yahweh show lovingkindness and faithfulness to you. And I will do you good too, because you have done this thing. 
7 Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be valiant yourself. Behold your master Saul is dead, but the house of Judah has anointed me king over them. 
8 But Abner the son of Ner and captain of Saul's army took Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and brought him to Mahanaim. 
9 And Abner made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. 
10 Ishbosheth the son of Saul was forty years old when he became king of Israel. He reigned two years, but the house of Judah followed David. 
11 And the time that David reigned in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. 
12 For Abner the son of Ner, and the main soldiers of Ishbosheth the son of Saul, they went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon. 
13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah also went out with the main soldiers of David, and the two companies met near the pool of Gibeon. And they sat down, one company on one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool. 
14 Then Abner said to Joab, Let some of the young men arise and fight in front of us. And Joab replied, Let them arise. 
15 Then they arose and went forth in equal numbers, twelve of Benjamin for Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the main soldiers of David. 
16 And each one seized his adversary by the head, and thrust his sword into the side of his adversary, and they all fell down together. Therefore that place which is in Gibeon had been called Helkath-hazzurim. 
17 And the battle was very fierce on that day, and Abner and the men of Israel were defeated by the main soldiers of David. 
18 And there were the three sons of Zeruiah: Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel had light feet like a wild roe deer. 
19 And Asahel was pursuing Abner, and he was not turning from Abner to go to the right or to the left. 
20 Then Abner looked behind him and said, Is it you, Asahel. And Asahel answered: It is I. 
21 And Abner said to him: Turn aside from me either to the right or to the left, and catch one of these young men, and take his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from him. 
22 And Abner said again to Asahel: Turn aside from me. Why should I smite you to the ground, and how then will I lift up my face before your brother Joab. 
23 But Asahel refused to turn aside. Therefore Abner smote him in the stomach with the back end of his spear, and the spear entered Asahel’s body and went out behind, and Asahel fell there and died in the same place. And all those who came to the place where Asahel had fallen dead stopped there. 
24 But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner, and the sun had gone down when they arrived at hill Ammah which is opposite Giah, on the way to the wilderness of Gibeon. 
25 And the children of Benjamin gathered around Abner on the top of the hill. 
26 Then Abner called Joab and said: Will the sword devour forever. Do you not know that there will be bitterness in the end. How long will you wait to tell the people to stop pursuing their brothers. 
27 And Joab answered: As God is alive, if you had not spoken then the people would not have ceased to pursue their brothers even in the morning. 
28 And Joab sounded a trumpet, and all the people stood still and no longer pursued Israel, and they did not continue to fight. 
29 And Abner and his men went all that night through the plain, and they crossed the Jordan, and went through all Bithron, and arrived at Mahanaim. 
30 And Joab also returned from pursuing Abner. And when he had gathered all the people together, nineteen of the main soldiers of David were missing and Asahel also. 
31 But the main soldiers of David had killed three hundred and sixty men of Benjamin and of Abner. 
32 And they took Asahel and buried him in the sepulcher of his father in Bethlehem. And Joab and his men went all that night, and they arrived at Hebron at the sunrise.
