1 Moreover Ahithophel said to Absalom: Let me now choose twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue David this night. 
2 And I will come on him while he is weary and his hands are weak. And I will terrify him, and all the people who are with him will flee, and I will only smite the king.
3 And I will bring all the people to you. For the death of the man who made you angry will bring everyone back, and all people will be at peace. 
4 This word of Ahithophel pleased Absalom and all the elders of Israel. 
5 Then Absalom said: Call now Hushai the Archite, and let us also hear what he will say. 
6 And when Hushai came to Absalom, then Absalom said to him: Ahithophel has spoken thus. Should we do what he said or not. Give your advice. 
7 And Hushai answered Absalom: The advice that Ahithophel has given this time is not good. 
8 And Hushai said: You know the bravery of your father and of his men. They are furious as a bear would be in the fields if her cubs had been taken away. And your father is a man of war, so he will not spend the night with the people. 
9 Behold he is now hidden in some pit or in some other place. And if some of our men fall from the beginning of the battle because of the fury of the adversary, then whoever hears it will say: The men of Absalom suffer a massacre. 
10 Then even the most valiant among us, whose heart is like that of a lion, will be seized with terror. For all Israel knows that your father is a hero and that those who are with him are mighty men.
11 My advice is therefore that all Israel be gathered around you, from Dan to Beersheba, a multitude like the sand on the seashore. And you yourself will go with them to the battle. 
12 So we will come to him wherever we find him, and we will fall on him like dew falls on the ground. And not one of them will escape, neither he nor any of the men who are with him. 
13 And if he withdraws and goes to a city, then all the men of Israel will carry ropes there. And we will drag that city to the river until there is nothing left in that place, not even a small stone. 
14 Then Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Arkite is better than the advice of Ahithophel. For Yahweh had determined to destroy the good counsel of Ahithophel in order to bring evil on Absalom. 
15 Then Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests: Ahithophel has given such and such counsel to Absalom and to the elders of Israel, and I advised such and such a thing. 
16 Now therefore send quickly to inform David by saying, Do not spend the night in the fields of the wilderness but cross the river, lest the king and all the people who are with him perish. 
17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying near En-rogel because they did not want to be seen in the city. And a maid went there and told them to go and inform king David. 
18 Nevertheless a young man saw them and reported it to Absalom. Therefore they both went away in haste, and they came to Bahurim at the house of a man who had a well in his courtyard, and they went down into it. 
19 And the wife of the man took a covering and spread it over the opening of the well, and she sprinkled crushed grain on the covering so that no one would have a suspicion. 
20 And Absalom's servants came to that woman into the house and said, Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan. And the woman answered them, They have gone over the river. And when Absalom's servants had sought and could not find them, then they returned to Jerusalem. 
21 After their departure, Ahimaaz and Jonathan came out of the well and went to tell king David by saying: Get up and hurry to cross the river, for Ahithophel has counseled such and such thing against you. 
22 So David and all the people who were with him arose and they crossed the Jordan, and at the dawn in the morning there was not one of them who had not crossed the Jordan with the others. 
23 And when Ahithophel saw that his advice has not been followed, then he saddled his donkey and went out to go home in his city. And there he gave his orders to his household and hanged himself. This is how he died, and they buried him in the sepulcher of his father. 
24 And David arrived in Mahanaim. And Absalom crossed the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him. 
25 And Absalom made Amasa captain of the army instead of Joab. And Amasa was the son of an Israelite man named Ithra and of Abigail the daughter of Nahash [her mother] and sister of Zeruiah, and Zeruiah was the mother of Joab. 
26 And Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead. 
27 And when David had come to Mahanaim, then these men came to him: Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim. 
28 And they brought him beds, and basins, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and flour, and roasted grain, and beans, and lentils, and roasted peas. 
29 And honey, and butter, and sheep, and cow's cheese. They brought these things to David and the people who were with him to eat. For they said: The people are hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness. 
