1 After this, Absalom took a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him while he drove the chariot. 
2 And Absalom usually got up early in the morning and stood near the entrance of the gate. And whenever a man with a dispute went to the king for a judgment, then Absalom called him and said, Of what city are you. And when he answered: Your servant is of that one of the tribes of Israel. 
3 Then Absalom said to him: Behold your cause is just, but there is no representative of the king to listen to you.
4 And Absalom said, Who will make me a judge in the land. For then I will do justice to anyone who comes to me with a dispute or a cause. 
5 And whenever a man came near to bow down to Absalom, then Absalom put forth his hand and brought the man to him and kissed the man. 
6 And Absalom acted this way with all the people of Israel who came to the king for a judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 
7 And after four years, Absalom said to the king: I pray you, let me go to Hebron to fulfill a vow that I made to Yahweh. 
8 For your servant made a vow when I was at Geshur in Syria, and I said: If Yahweh brings me back to Jerusalem then I will serve Yahweh. 
9 And the king said to him, Go in peace. So Absalom got up and went to Hebron. 
10 And Absalom sent spies from Hebron throughout all the tribes of Israel by saying: When you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you will say, Absalom reigns in Hebron. 
11 And Absalom had gone out of Jerusalem with two hundred men whom he had invited to accompany him. And they went in their simplicity without knowing anything about what Absalom planned. 
12 And while Absalom was offering sacrifices at Hebron, he sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite to Giloh his city. Ahithophel was the adviser of David. And the treason was great against David since the people of Absalom were more and more numerous. 
13 Then came a messenger to David, and he said to the king: The hearts of the men of Israel had turned toward Absalom. 
14 And David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem: Get up and let us flee, for there will be no salvation for us before Absalom. Make haste to depart, lest he suddenly come and catch us, and bring evil to us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. 
15 And the king's servants said to him: Your servants will do whatever my lord the king desires. 
16 So the king went out and all his household followed him. And the king left ten concubines to maintain the house. 
17 And the king went with all those people, and they stopped in a distant place. 
18 And beside the king there were all his servants, and before the king there were all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and also six hundred men of the Gittites who had come with him at Jerusalem from Gath. 
19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite: Why should you also come with us. Return and stay with the new king, for you are a foreigner and you have come from a foreign country to take refuge [under the wings of the God of Israel]. So go back at Jerusalem. 
20 You came recently. Should I cause you to wander today with us when I do not know where I am going. Therefore take your brothers with you and return. May God be faithful and good to you. 
21 But Ittai answered the king and said: As Yahweh is alive and as my lord the king is alive, your servant will be wherever my lord the king will go whether to die or to live. 
22 Then David said to Ittai, Stay and go before me. And Ittai the Gittite went with all his people and their children before the king. 
23 And the inhabitants of the place wept with a loud voice while the king and all the people with him went on their way. And the king crossed the valley of Kidron, and all the people also, and they went toward the way of the wilderness. 
24 And lo, Zadok also was there and all the Levites with him, carrying the ark of the covenant of God. For they had set down the ark of God, and Abiathar was praying until all the people had finished to come out of Jerusalem. 
25 And the king said to Zadok: Carry back the ark of God to the city. For if I find favor in the eyes of Yahweh then he will bring me back to Jerusalem and he will make me see the ark and the place of its habitation. 
26 But if he says, I have no pleasure in you. Then behold, here I am and let him do to me what seems good in his eyes. 
27 And the king also said to Zadok the priest: Are you not a seer. Go back in the city in peace with your two sons, namely Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
28 Behold I will wait in the fields of the wilderness until I received a message from you. 
29 Thus Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem, and they stayed there. 
30 And David went up to the mount of olives, and wept as he went up. He had his head covered, and he went barefoot. And all those who were with him covered their heads also and went up, and they wept as they went up. 
31 Then it was reported to David by saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said: O Yahweh, I pray you, turn the counsels of Ahithophel into foolishness. 
32 And David came at the top of the ascent which was one of the places where the people usually worshiped [where the people sacrificed to Yahweh]. And behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his garment torn, and with dust on his head. 
33 And David said to him, If you come with me then you will be a burden to me. 
34 But if you return to Jerusalem and say to Absalom. 'I will be your servant, O king. I have been the servant of your father in past, but I am now your servant'. If you do this then you could be useful to me by neutralizing the counsel of Ahithophel. 
35 Will not the priests Zadok and Abiathar be there with you. So whatever you hear from the king's house, you will tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests. 
36 Behold they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz the son of Zadok and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. You will send me by them everything that you will hear. 
37 So Hushai the friend of David went back to the city of Jerusalem, and Absalom entered Jerusalem.
