1 And the following year at the period when kings went out to war because the climate is favorable, David sent to destroy the children of Ammon. David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all [the army of] Israel. 
2 And one evening David got up from his bed and walked on the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look at. 
3 And David sent to inquire about the woman, and one said: Is this not Bathsheba the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite. 
4 And David sent messengers to take her, and she came to David. And David copulates with her, for she was purified from the periodic uncleanness of women at that time. And then she returned to her house. 
5 And the woman became pregnant. Therefore she sent and told David, and said, I am with child. 
6 Then David sent to Joab by saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David. 
7 And when Uriah had come to him, then David inquired about Joab's condition, and about the state of the soldiers, and about the state of the war. 
8 And then David said to Uriah, Go down to your house and wash your feet. So Uriah departed out of the king's house, and the king sent a gift to Uriah. 
9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his house. 
10 And it was told to David by saying, 'Uriah did not go down to his house'. And David said to Uriah: Have you not come from a journey. Why did you not go down to your house. 
11 And Uriah answered David: The soldiers of Israel and Judah are dwelling in tents, and my lord Joab and the officers of my lord are camping in the open field. Should I then go into my house to eat and drink, and to sleep with my wife. As true as you are alive and as your soul is alive, I will not do this thing. 
12 And David said to Uriah, You will stay again in the city today but I will send you back to the battle tomorrow. So Uriah had stayed in Jerusalem on the day of his arrival and on the next day. 
13 And David invited Uriah to eat and drink in his presence, and David made him drunk. And at the evening Uriah went out to sleep with the servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his house. 
14 And the next morning David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah. 
15 And David wrote in this letter: Place Uriah where the battle is most intense and withdraw from him, so that he may be smitten and die [For David thought, May Yahweh put his hand on him]. 
16 So when Joab was besieging the city, he assigned Uriah to the place where he knew that strong men of the enemies were. 
17 And the men of the city came out and fought against Joab, and many fell among the soldiers of Israel the servants of David, and Uriah the Hittite died also. 
18 Then Joab sent a messenger to report to David all the things concerning the war. 
19 And Joab commanded the messenger by saying, When you have finished telling all the details of the war to the king. 
20 Perhaps he will become furious and say to you: Why have you approached the city to fight. Did you not know that the enemy can throw objects from the top of the wall. 
21 For who smote Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth. Did not a woman cast a piece of millstone on him from the top of the wall, and he died thus at Thebez. Why have you approached the wall. Then you will replied: Your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead. 
22 And the messenger went from the battlefield, and he came and reported to David everything that Joab had commanded him. 
23 And the messenger said to David: The enemies came out and attacked us in the fields, but we pursued them to the entrance of the gate. 
24 And the archers shot at your servants from the top of the wall, and some of the king’s servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead. 
25 Then David said to the messenger, You will speak thus to Joab: Do not be grieved because of this thing, for the sword devours sometimes one and sometimes another. Strengthen your battle against the city, and overthrow it. And you the messenger, encourage him. 
26 And when the wife of Uriah heard that her husband had died, then she mourned for her husband. 
27 And when the mourning had past, then David sent for her and took her into his house. And she became the wife of David and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased Yahweh.
