1 And in that place there was a wicked man named Sheba the son of Bichri, a Benjamite. And he sounded the trumpet and said: We have no part in David, neither have we any inheritance in the son of Jesse. Let every man go to his tent, O Israel. 
2 So all the men of Israel departed from David and followed Sheba the son of Bichri. But the men of Judah remained faithful to their king, and accompanied him from the Jordan to Jerusalem. 
3 And David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten concubines whom he had left there to maintain the house, and put them in a place where they were sequestered, and fed them, but he no longer had an intimate relationship with them. So they were enclosed until the day of their death, living in widowhood. 
4 Then the king said to Amasa: Summon the men of Judah to me within three days, and be present here yourself. 
5 So Amasa went to summon Judah, but he did not return within the time set by the king. 
6 Then David said to Abishai: Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom. Now therefore take your lord's servants and pursue him, lest he find fortified cities and hide from our sight. 
7 So Abishai went out and was followed by the men of Joab, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and of all mighty men. They went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
8 And when they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, then Amasa came to meet them. And Joab was girded with a sword over his apparel of war that he had put on. The sword was attached to his waist in the sheath, and it used to slip when Joab walked. 
9 And Joab said to Amasa: Are you well, my brother. And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him. 
10 And Amasa paid no attention to the sword that was in Joab's hand, and Joab used it to strike Amasa in the stomach and pour out his entrails on the ground, without striking him a second time. And it is how Amasa died, and Joab and his brother Abishai continued to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. [Joab's mother and Amasa's mother were both David's sisters, and Joab did not tolerate the fact that it was Amasa who commanded Absalom's army to pursue him and David] 
11 And a man of the servants of Joab stayed near Amasa and said: Who wants Joab and who is for David. Let him follow Joab. 
12 And Amasa was wallowed in blood in the middle of the road, and the man saw that all the people were stopping to look at Amasa. Therefore he carried Amasa out of the road and placed him in the field next to the road, and threw a garment over him. 
13 So Amasa was taken out of the way, and all the people went after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
14 And Joab went through all the tribes of Israel towards Abel-Beth-Maachah, and all the chosen men gathered together and followed him. 
15 So they came to besiege Sheba at Abel-Beth-Maachah. And they set up a mountain against the wall to enter the city, while all the people who were with Joab struck the wall to make it fall. 
16 Then a wise woman cried from the city: Listen, listen, I pray you Joab. Come near here so that I may talk to you. 
17 And he came near to her and the woman said, Are you Joab. And he answered, I am. And she said to him, Listen to the words of your handmaid. And he replied, I am listening. 
18 Then she said: Formerly it was customary to say, They should ask advice at Abel. And that is how they used to end a matter. 
19 I am one of the peaceful and faithful cities in Israel, and you seek to destroy a city which is a mother in Israel. Why should you destroy the inheritance of Yahweh. 
20 And Joab answered and said: Far be it from me that I should ravage or destroy. 
21 The matter is not so. But a man from the hill country of Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri, has raised his hand against the king David. Take him alone and deliver him to us, and I depart from the city. And the woman said to Joab: Behold his head will be thrown to you from the wall. 
22 Then the woman went to all the people with her wisdom, and they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and threw it to Joab. Then Joab sounded the trumpet, and they dispersed from the city, and everyone went to his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king. 
23 Then Joab was captain of the whole army of Israel, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was captain of the Cherethites and of the Pelethites. 
24 And Adoram was over the men subjected to forced labor, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was an archivist. 
25 And Sheva was scribe, and Zadok and Abiathar were priests. 
26 And Ira the Jairite was the chief minister of David.
