1 Afterwards, the following things happened. Absalom the son of David had a sister who was beautiful and whose name was Tamar. And Amnon the son of David loved her [they had the same father but not the same mother]. 
2 And Amnon was so tormented that he became sick because of his lust for his sister Tamar. For she was still a virgin, and it seemed difficult for Amnon to make the slightest attempt on her. 
3 But Amnon had a friend called Jonadab, the son of Shimeah who was a brother of David. And Jonadab was a very subtle man. 
4 And Jonadab said to Amnon: Why do you seem to lose weight day by day, you the son of the king. Will you not tell me. And Amnon answered him: I love Tamar, the sister of Absalom my brother. 
5 And Jonadab said to him: Go and lie down on your bed, and pretend to have an ordinary illness. And when your father comes to see you, then you will say to him: I pray you, let my sister Tamar come to give me something to eat. And let her prepare a meal before my eyes, so that I may see it and eat of it from her hand. 
6 So Amnon lay down and pretended to have an ordinary illness. And when the king came to see him, then Amnon said to the king: I pray you, let my sister Tamar come to bake two cakes before my eyes, and so that I may eat of it from her hand. 
7 Then David sent messengers to the house of Tamar [her place near the king] by saying: Go now to the house of your brother Amnon and prepare food for him there. 
8 So Tamar went to the house of Amnon her brother who was lying down. And she took flour and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes. 
9 Then Tamar took the cakes out of the pan and place them for Amnon. But Amnon refused to eat and said, I want all the servants out of here except you Tamar. So all the servants went out from there. 
10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, Bring the meal near my bed, so that I may eat it from your hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the bed to Amnon her brother. 
11 And when she had placed them before him to eat, then he grabbed her and said to her: Come and make love with me, my sister. 
12 And she answered him: No my brother, do not dishonor me. For such a thing should not be done in Israel [We must not do anything without being sure that we will be able to publicly justify ourselves in situations that will require it]. Do not commit this folly. 
13 And I, where will I go with my shame. And you will be like one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore I pray you, speak to the king about the fact that you want me and maybe he will not refuse to give me to you officially [despite the fact that Moses forbade it, for Moses also forbade to kill but Yahweh is the spirit. Now she said this last thing to bring him to reason since it was unlikely that the spirit of Yahweh move David to agree to unite them. For as children of the anointed of Yahweh, each one of them could certainly bring happiness to a person in the population of the kingdom or even outside the kingdom]. 
14 But Amnon did not want to listen to her voice. And he forced her because he was stronger than her, and he copulates with her. 
15 And when he had finished, then Amnon had a strong aversion to her. And this new feeling was more intense than the love with which he had love her previously. And Amnon said to her: Get up and go away. 
16 And she answered him: If I do not become your wife, then it will be a greater harm for me than the one that you just did. But Amnon refused to listen to Tamar. 
17 And Amnon called the servant who usually stayed near him and said: Now put this woman away from me and close the door after her. 
18 And she had a garment of several colors on her, because such garments were the apparel of the king's daughters as long as they were virgins. So Amnon's servant brought her outside and closed the door after her. 
19 Then Tamar put ashes on her head, and she tore her garment of several colors that was on her, and she put her hand on her head, and she screamed while going on her way. 
20 And Absalom her brother saw it and said to her: Has Amnon your brother been with you. Now therefore my sister, do not expose your pain to everyone for the sole purpose of seeking justice for yourself because he is your brother. Do not let this thing afflict your heart [It is a good thing that you have not made it a secret but now you have to think about your future and about others]. And Tamar left her house [her place near the king] and went to dwell in the house of Absalom her brother. 
21 And when king David heard all these things, then he was very angry. 
22 And Absalom said neither good nor bad to his brother Amnon about this thing, but Absalom hated Amnon because Amnon had dishonored Tamar the sister of Absalom. 
23 And two years later Absalom had his flock sheared at Baal-hazor near Ephraim, and he organized a party for this joyous event and invited all the king's sons. 
24 And Absalom went to the king and said: Behold your servant has the shearers. Therefore I pray you, let the king and his servants come to your servant. 
25 And the king answered Absalom, No my son, we will not all go lest we be a burden to you. And Absalom urged the king, but the king did not want to go and the king thanked Absalom. 
26 Then Absalom said: If not, I pray you, let my brother Amnon come with us. And the king answered him: Why should he go with you. 
27 But because Absalom's was urging him, then the king sent Amnon and all the king's sons to Absalom. 
28 And Absalom commanded his servants by saying: Pay attention when the heart of Amnon is merry by wine and when I say to you, Smite Amnon. For then you will kill him. Do not be afraid, for it is I who commands you [the liability is mine]. Be strong and have courage. 
29 And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded them. And all the sons of the king arose, and every man put himself on his mule and fled. 
30 And while they were on the way, a report came to David and was saying: Absalom has killed all the sons of the king, and none of them is alive. 
31 Therefore the king got up, and tore his garments, and lay down on the ground. And all his servants stayed near him after having torn their clothes. 
32 And then Jonadab the son of Shimeah the brother of David spoke and said: Let not my lord think that all the young men who are the sons of the king have been killed. For only Amnon is dead, and this is the effect of a resolution of Absalom since the day that Amnon had dishonored Tamar his sister. 
33 Now therefore let not my lord the king be tormented by the thought that all the sons of the king are dead, for only Amnon is dead. 
34 Now Absalom had fled, and the young man who was the sentinel at the house of the king was looking around. And behold, a large company was coming from the way of the hill side behind him [and therefore he sent the news]. 
35 And Jonadab said to the king: Behold the sons of the king are coming, therefore what your servant has said is confirmed. 
36 And as he finished speaking, behold the sons of the king arrived and lifted up their voices and wept. And the king also and all his servants wept exceedingly. 
37 And Absalom had fled, and he had gone to Talmai the son of Ammihur the king of Geshur. And David mourned for Amnon his son every day. 
38 So Absalom fled and went to Geshur, and he stayed there three years. 
39 And king David ceased to pursue Absalom and wanted to see him, because he was comforted of the death of Amnon.
