1 And David counted the men who were with him, and he established captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them. 
2 And David placed one third of the people under the hand of Joab, and one third under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah and brother of Joab, and one third under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people: I will go out with you. 
3 But the people answered: You will not go out. Because if we run away before the enemy, then it is not on us that attention will be put, and they will not care about us even if half of us die. But you are now worth ten thousand of us therefore it is preferable that you stay in the city. 
4 Then the king said to them, I will do what seems good to you. And the king stood near the gate while all the people went out by hundreds and by thousands. 
5 And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai by saying: For the love of me, be gentle with the young Absalom. And all the people heard when the king gave orders to all the captains concerning Absalom. 
6 So the people went out in the fields to meet Israel, and the battle was in the forest of Ephraim. 
7 And the people of Israel were smitten by the servants of David, and there was a great defeat because twenty thousand men were killed on that day. 
8 For the battle extended throughout the region, and the forest devoured more people on that day than the sword. 
9 And it happened that Absalom met David's servants. And Absalom was riding on a mule, and the mule entered the intertwined branches of a large terebinth, and the head of Absalom was caught by the terebinth. And Absalom remained suspended between the heaven and the earth, and the mule that was under him went away. 
10 And a servant of David saw him and said to Joab: Behold I saw Absalom hanging in a terebinth. 
11 And Joab said to the man who brought him this news: You saw him, and why have you not smitten him there to the ground. I would have given you ten shekels of silver and a belt. 
12 But the man said to Joab: I would not put my hand on the king's son even if I were given a thousand shekels of silver. For we have heard this order that the king gave you, to you and to Abishai and to Ittai: Take care of the young Absalom, each one of you. 
13 And if I had done it then it would have been a trap for my life. For [Yahweh is a witness and] nothing can be hidden from the king, and you yourself would have been against me. 
14 Then Joab said, I will not waste my time here with you. So Joab went there, and took three javelins in his hand, and thrust them into the heart of Absalom who was still alive in the middle of terebinth. 
15 And ten servants who carried Joab's weapons surrounded Absalom, and smote him and killed him. 
16 Then Joab sounded the trumpet and the people returned from pursuing Israel. For Joab prevented the people from going on. 
17 And they took Absalom, and threw him into a large pit in the forest, and covered it with a very great heap of stones. And all Israel fled, each one to his tent. 
18 During his lifetime, Absalom had a monument erected in the king's valley. For he said, I have no son [alive] by whom the memory of my name can be conserved. And he gave his own name to the monument which is still called today Absalom's monument. 
19 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said to Joab: May I run and bring to the king the good news that Yahweh has saved him from the hand of his enemies. 
20 And Joab said to him: You will not be the messenger today but you will be for another occasion, because the king's son is dead. 
21 Then Joab said to Cushi: Go and tell the king what you have seen. And Cushi bowed himself to Joab, and ran. 
22 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok spoke again to Joab by saying, Now therefore may I run and follow Cushi. And Joab said: Why do you want to go my son, since you have no news to bring. 
23 And Ahimaaz said again, But I want to go [Now he had only the desire to serve his lord the king David]. And Joab said to him, Go. And Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and he was ahead of Cushi. 
24 Now David was sitting between the two gates. And the watchman went to the part of the wall that was over the gate, and lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold, a man was coming and was running alone. 
25 And the watchman cried and told the king. And the king said, If he is alone then he is bringing news. And when this man was still coming closer. 
26 Then the watchman saw another man running, and the watchman called to the doorman and said, Behold another man running alone. And the king said, He also is bringing news. 
27 And the watchman said: The manner of running of the first man seems to be that of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said: He is a good man, he is bringing good news. 
28 And Ahimaaz called to the king and said, Peace be with you. And he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground and said, Blessed be Yahweh your God who has defeated the men who raised their hand against my lord the king. 
29 And the king said, Is the young man Absalom alive. And Ahimaaz answered: When Joab sent the king's servant, I your servant, then I saw a great tumult but I do not know what it was. [Now he said this thing only because the mission to announce that news to the king has been entrusted to another person in his presence, and he knows that this person will arrive soon. And if he was deliberately faster than Cushi, it was because he was the first to ask to go see the king] 
30 And the king said, Turn aside and stand here. And Ahimaaz turned aside and stood still. 
31 And behold, Cushi came and said: May the king my lord hear the good news. For Yahweh has save you today from the hand of all those who rose against you. 
32 Then the king said to Cushi, Is the young man Absalom alive. And Cuschi answered: May they be like this young man, the enemies of my lord the king and all those who rise against you to hurt you. 
33 Then the king was seized with a great emotion, and he went up in the room above the gate and wept. And while he was going, he was saying: O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom. I wish I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son.
