1 The war continued for a long time between the house of Saul and the house of David. David became stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul became weaker and weaker. 
2 And children were born to David in Hebron. His eldest son was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel. 
3 And his second son was Chileab the son of Abigail of Carmel who had been the wife of Nabal. And his third son was Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai the king of Geshur. 
4 And his fourth son was Adonijah the son of Haggith. And his fifth son was Shephatiah the son of Abital. 
5 And his sixth son was Ithream the son of Eglah the wife of David. These are the sons who were born to David in Hebron. 
6 And during the war between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner was loyal to the house of Saul. 
7 And Saul had a concubine named Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. And Ishbosheth said to Abner: Why have you gone to the concubine of my father [who is no longer alive]. 
8 Then Abner was very angry because of the words of Ishbosheth, and said: Am I the head of a dog that is used to fight Judah [and whose other body parts are unimportant]. Until this day I have shown kindness to the house of Saul your father, and to his brothers, and to his friends, and I have not delivered you into the hand of David. How can you blame me today because of this woman. 
9 Now therefore, may God acts toward me with all his rigor if I do not act toward David according to what Yahweh has sworn to David.
10 For he has said that he will take away the kingdom from the house of Saul so that the throne of David may be established over Israel and over Judah from Dan to Beersheba. 
11 And Ishbosheth did not dare to answer Abner, because he feared him. 
12 Then Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf by saying: To whom is the land. Make a covenant with me and behold, my hand will help you to turn all Israel to you. 
13 And David replied to Abner: Good, I will make a covenant with you but I demand one thing from you. You will not see my face except you bring Michal the daughter of Saul when you come to me. 
14 And David sent messengers to Ishbosheth the son of Saul by saying: Give me Michal my wife, whom I have betrothed for an hundred foreskins of the Philistines. 
15 And Ishbosheth sent for her, and she was taken from her husband Palthiel the son of Laish. 
16 And her husband went with her, weeping behind while following her, and they came to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, Go and return home. So he returned home. 
17 And Abner spoke to the elders of Israel by saying: You desired to have David as your king in the past. 
18 Therefore do it now, for Yahweh has said of him: By the hand of David my servant I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies. 
19 And Abner also spoke to Benjamin, and then he went to speak with David in Hebron concerning all that seemed good to Israel and to the whole house of Benjamin [the tribe of Saul the first king of Israel]. 
20 So Abner came to David at Hebron, accompanied by twenty men. And David made a feast for Abner and for those who were with him. 
21 Then Abner said to David: I will get up and go to gather all Israel to my lord the king, so that they may make a covenant with you. And you will reign completely according to your desire. Then David sent Abner away, and Abner went in peace. 
22 And behold, Joab and the main soldiers of David returned from a foray and brought with them a great spoil. And Abner was no longer with David in Hebron, for David had sent him away and he had gone in peace. 
23 And when Joab and all his company arrived, this report was made to Joab: Abner the son of Ner has come to the king, and the king has sent him away, and he has gone in peace. 
24 Then Joab went to the king and said: What have you done. Behold Abner has come to you and you has let him go. Why has you send him away. 
25 You know Abner the son of Ner. It is to deceive you that he has come, and to know your going out and your coming in, and to know all that you do. 
26 And when Joab had left David, then he sent messengers after Abner and they brought him back from the well of Sirah. But David knew nothing of it. 
27 And when Abner had returned to Hebron, then Joab led him aside in the midst of the gate as if to speak to him peacefully and privately. And there he smote him in the stomach so that he died, to avenge the death of Asahel his brother. 
28 And afterward when David heard it, then he said: I and my kingdom are forever blameless before Yahweh concerning the blood of Abner the son of Ner. 
29 Let this blood fall on the head of Joab and on all his house. And let there always be someone in Joab's house who has an issue, or a leprosy, or who leans on a staff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread. 
30 So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel in the battle at Gibeon. 
31 And David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him: Tear your clothes, and put on sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And king David himself went behind the bier. 
32 And when they had buried Abner in Hebron, then the king lifted up his voice and wept at sepulcher of Abner, and all the people wept. 
33 And the king lamented for Abner, and said: Should Abner die as a fool dies. 
34 Your hands were not tied, nor your feet in chains of brass, but you fell as one falls before the wicked. And all the people wept again for Abner. 
35 Afterward all the people came to David to give him some food while it was still day. But David swore by saying: May God acts toward me with all his rigor if I taste bread or anything before the sunset. 
36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them. And everything that the king had done pleased them. 
37 For all the people and all Israel understood on that day that it was not the king who had commanded to kill Abner the son of Ner. 
38 And the king said to his servants [who were near him]: Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen today in Israel. 
39 It is only recently that I have been recognized as king over all Israel, and these men the sons of Zeruiah have troubled me by their behavior. May Yahweh repay him who does evil according to his wickedness.
