1 And when Ishbosheth the son of Saul heard that Abner had died in Hebron, then his hands became feeble [he no longer had the strength to lift his hands], and all Israel was afraid.
2 And Ishbosheth the son of Saul had two men who were captains of bands. The name of the one was Baanah and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the children of Benjamin because Beeroth was considered part of Benjamin. 
3 But the Beerothites fled to Gittaim where they have lived until this day. 
4 And Jonathan the son of Saul had a son who was lame of his feet. For was five years old when the news of the death of Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel, and he fell and became lame when his nurse took him and hastened to flee at that time. His name was Mephibosheth. 
5 Now Rechab and Baanah the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite went from their place, and they came in the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth who was sleeping on a bed at noon.
6 Behold Rechab and his brother Baanah came into the middle of the house as if to take wheat, and they smote him in the stomach. And Rechab and his brother Baanah fled.
7 For they entered the house while he was sleeping on his bed in his bedroom, and they smote him, and killed him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and went through the plain all the night. 
8 And they brought the head of Ishbosheth to David in Hebron, and said to the king: Behold the head of Ishbosheth, the son of your enemy Saul who sought your life. For Yahweh has avenged my lord the king today of Saul and of his seed. 
9 Then David answered Rechab and his brother Baanah the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite: Yahweh who has delivered my soul from all adversity is alive. 
10 The one who came and said to me 'Behold Saul is dead' had thought to have brought me a good news. But I took him and killed in Ziklag, to give him the reward for his message [which also specified that he was responsible for Saul's death]. 
11 And when wicked men have murdered a righteous person in his own house and on his bed, how much more will I not demand his blood at your hand and destroy you from the earth. 
12 And David commanded his young men, and they killed them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them near the pool of Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth and buried it in the sepulcher of Abner in Hebron.
