1 And Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance, but he became friends with Ahab. [A son of Jehoshaphat had taken a wife from the daughters of the house of Ahab king of Israel]
2 And in the seventeenth year of the reign of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen in abundance for Jehoshaphat and for the people who were with him, and Ahab enticed Jehoshaphat to go up to Ramoth-gilead. 
3 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Do you want to go with me to Ramoth-gilead [to the battle]. And Jehoshaphat answered him: I am like you are, and my people is like your people, and we will join you in the war.
4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel: Consult now the word of Yahweh, I pray you.
5 Therefore the king of Israel assembled four hundred men of the prophets and said to them, Can I go to fight against Ramoth-gilead or should I refrain. And they replied: Go, because God will deliver it into the hand of the king.
6 But Jehoshaphat said: Is there not another prophet of Yahweh here [who is not part of this company of men having the same habits], so that we may also inquire of him.
7 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah: There remains one man by whom we can consult Yahweh. But I hate him, because he does not prophesy good to me but evil. It is Micaiah the son of Imlah. And Jehoshaphat said, Let the king not speak thus.
8 Then Ahab king of Israel called an eunuch and said: Bring Micaiah the son of Imlah here quickly.
9 And Ahab the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were each sitting on his throne and clothed with his apparel. They sat in the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets were prophesying before them.
10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made iron horns and said, Thus speaks Yahweh: With these horns you will smite the Syrians until you have destroyed them.
11 And all the prophets prophesied the same by saying: Go to Ramoth-gilead and you will succeed, for Yahweh will deliver it into the hand of the king.
12 And the messenger who had gone to call Micaiah spoke to him by saying: Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good to the king as with one mouth. Therefore let your word be like the word of one of them, I pray you. Say good things.
13 And Micaiah replied: As Yahweh is alive, I will announce what Yahweh will tell me.
14 So Micaiah came to the king, and the king said to him: Micaiah, can we go to fight against Ramoth-gilead or should we forbear. And Micaiah replied: Go and you will succeed, for they will be delivered into your hand. 
15 And the king said to Micaiah: How many times will I urge you to tell me only the real words of Yahweh.
16 Then Micaiah said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains like sheep that had no shepherd. And Yahweh said: These people have no master, let every man return to his house in peace. 
17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: Have I not told you that he prophesies not good things for me, but evil.
18 And Micaiah said: Listen therefore to the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on his throne, and the whole army of the heavens standing on his right hand and on his left.
19 And Yahweh said, Who will persuade Ahab king of Israel so that he may go and perish at Ramoth-gilead. And one answered on one manner, and another answered on another manner. 
20 Then a spirit came forth and stood before Yahweh, and said: I will entice him. And Yahweh said, How will you do. 
21 And he answered, I will go out and I will be a spirit of lie in the mouth of all his prophets. And Yahweh said: You will persuade him and you will also prevail. Go now and do so. 
22 Now therefore behold, Yahweh has put a spirit of lie in the mouth of all these prophets who have come to you. And Yahweh has pronounced the evil against you.
23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said: By what way did the spirit of Yahweh come out of me to speak by you. 
24 And Micaiah said: Behold you will see [the real plans of Yahweh] on that day that when you will go from room to room to hide yourself. 
25 And the king of Israel said: Take Micaiah, and carry him to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the son of the king.
26 And you will say, Thus speaks the king: Put this man in the prison house, and feed him with bread of affliction, and with water of affliction, until I come back in peace. 
27 And Micaiah said: If you come back in peace then Yahweh has not spoken by me. And Micaiah said again: You all the people here, hear. 
28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: I will disguise myself to go into the battle, but you will put on your apparel. And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. 
30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains who were over his chariots by saying: You will not attack the small or the great, but you will only attack the king of Israel.
31 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, 'It is the king of Israel'. Therefore they turned aside to attack him. And Jehoshaphat cried out, and Yahweh helped him. God caused his pursuers to turn away from him. 
32 For when the captains of the chariots saw that he was not the king of Israel, then they ceased to pursue him and turned back.
33 Then a soldier mightily shot an arrow at random, and it happened that the arrow smote the king of Israel between the joints of his brigandine [his armor]. Therefore the king said to the driver of his chariot: Turn your hand and carry me out of the battlefield, because I am wounded.
34 And the battle became fierce on that day, and the king stayed in his chariot opposite the Syrians until the evening, and he died at sunset.
