1 So Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem, on the mount Moriah according to what had been declared to David his father [to whom it had been asked to build an altar there], at the place that David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
2 And he began the construction on the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign. 
3 And now these are the measurements of the foundation on which Solomon built the house of God. The length in cubits of the old measure was sixty cubits, and the width twenty cubits. 
4 And the portico in the front was twenty cubits long, according to the width of the house, and twenty cubits high, and Solomon covered it on the inside with pure gold. 
5 And he covered the ceiling of the greater house with fir wood which he overlaid with fine gold, and had palm trees and chains carved there.
6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty. And the gold was gold of Parvaim. 
7 The house, I say, the beams, and doorposts, and the doors, and the walls, he overlaid all these with gold and he had cherubim carved on the walls. 
8 And he made the house of the most holy place. It was twenty cubits in length and twenty cubits in width. And he overlaid it with pure gold amounting six hundred talents. 
9 And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold, and he overlaid the upper rooms with gold. 
10 And he made two carved cherubim in the house of the most holy place, and overlaid them with gold. 
11 And the wings of the cherubim were spread out over a length of twenty cubits. The wing of one cherub was five cubits long and reached a wall of the house, and its other wing was five cubits long and reached the wing of the other cherub. 
12 And the wing of the other cherub was five cubits long and reached the wall [which was opposite the first wall] of the house, and its other wing was five cubits long and joined the wing of the first cherub. 
13 So the wings of these cherubim were spread out over a length of twenty cubits. And they stood on their feet, and their faces were toward the entrance of house. 
14 And he made the veil of blue, and of purple, and of crimson, and of fine linen, and he fashioned cherubim thereon. 
15 And he made in front of the house two pillars of eighteen cubits high, with a capital [chapiter] of five cubits on the top of each of them. 
16 And he made chains, as in the oracle, and did put them on the heads of the pillars. And he made a hundred pomegranates and did put them in the chains [for each of the two rows of each pillar]. 
17 And he set up the pillars in front of the temple, one on the right hand and the other on the left. And he called the name of the one which was on the right hand Jachin, and the name of the one on the left Boaz.
