1 And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned safe to his house in Jerusalem. 
2 And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to king Jehoshaphat: Should you help the wicked and love those who hate Yahweh. Therefore Yahweh is angry with you because of this thing. 
3 Nevertheless there are good things found in you, because you have removed the groves from the land, and have set your heart to seek God. 
4 And after that Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem. And Jehoshaphat went again among the people, from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim, and brought them back to Yahweh the God of their fathers [he persuaded them to behave in the way that pleased Yahweh]. 
5 And Jehoshaphat appointed judges in all the fortified cities throughout the land of Judah, in every city. 
6 And he said to the judges: Consider what you do. For your judgments should not be designed to please men but Yahweh, and he will assist you in the judgment. 
7 Now therefore let the fear of Yahweh be on you, and be careful with what you have to do. For there is no iniquity with Yahweh our God. There is neither respect for the face of a person, nor acceptance of gifts. 
8 And Jehoshaphat returned to Jerusalem and appointed persons there for the judgments of Yahweh [concerning his complex commandments] and for controversies. Jehoshaphat chose them from the Levites, and from the priests, and from the chiefs of the families of Israel. 
9 And Jehoshaphat commanded them by saying: This is what you will do in the fear of Yahweh, faithfully and with a sincere heart. 
10 In every controversy that comes to you from your brothers who dwelt in their cities, concerning a murder, or a law, or a precept, or a statute, or a judgment, you will enlighten them and warn them so that they may not transgress against Yahweh. And thus the wrath of Yahweh will not be kindled against you and against your brothers. This is what each of you will do so as not to be guilty towards his God. [For Yahweh said to Moses: It is he who sins against me whom I will erase from my book.] 
11 And behold, Amariah the high priest is over you in all the matters of Yahweh [concerning his complex commandments]. And Zebadiah the son of Ishmael is the leader in matters concerning the tribe of Judah in particular, and he will be over all matters concerning the responsibility of the people towards the king. And the Levites are before you as officers. Be brave and do your duty, and Yahweh will be with those among you who will act honestly.
