1 And when all these things were finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and broke the images, and cut down the groves, and destroyed the high places and the altars throughout all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and also in Ephraim and in Manasseh, until they had destroyed all those things. Then all the children of Israel returned to their own cities, every man to his possession. 
2 And Hezekiah reestablished the divisions of the priests and the Levites by their periods of service, every man according to his office, both the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and peace offerings, and for other services, and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the camp of Yahweh. 
3 And the king gave a portion of his goods for some burnt offerings, namely the burnt offerings of the morning and of the evening, and the burnt offerings of the sabbaths, and of the new moons, and of the appointed feasts, according to what is written in the law of Yahweh [regarding the required quantities]. 
4 And he commanded the people who dwelt in Jerusalem to give a part of their goods to the priests and to the Levites, so that they might be encouraged to use all their time for the implementation of the law of Yahweh. 
5 And when this commandment was spread, the children of Israel gave abundantly the firstfruits of grain, and of wine, and of oil, and of honey, and of all the produce of the field. And they also brought abundantly the tithes of all things. 
6 And the children of Israel and Judah who dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought the tithes of the herd and of the flock, and the tithes of the holy things which were consecrated to Yahweh their God, and laid those things by many heaps. 
7 They began to lay the foundation of the heaps in the third month, and they finished the heaps in the seventh month. 
8 Then Hezekiah and the princes [leaders] came and saw the heaps, and they blessed Yahweh and his people Israel. 
9 Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 
10 And Azariah the high priest of the house [descendants] of Zadok answered him: Since they began to bring the offerings into the house of Yahweh, we eat continually and we are satisfied, and there is plenty left. For Yahweh has blessed his people, this is why there is plenty left. 
11 And Hezekiah commanded to prepare storerooms in the temple of Yahweh, and they prepared them. 
12 And they brought in the offerings, and the tithes, and the dedicated things. Conaniah the Levite was responsible for the storerooms, and Shimei his brother was second. 
13 And here are the men appointed to serve them: Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah. They were overseers under the hand of Conaniah and of his brother Shimei, according to the commandment of king Hezekiah and of Azariah the chief of the house of God. 
14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the gatekeeper of the gate of the east, was over the freewill offerings given to God in oder to distribute the freewill offerings and the holy things that were consecrated. 
15 And he had under his hand Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, and Amariah, and Shecaniah. They were in the cities of the priests [and of the Levites] and they had to distribute faithfully to their brothers according to their divisions, both to the great and to the small. 
16 The males were reckoned by their genealogy, from twenty years old and upward, all those able to enter the house of Yahweh to serve in their offices according to their divisions. 
17 Both the generation of the priests by their fathers' houses, and of the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, according to their duties by their divisions.
18 And the distributions were made according to all their families, namely their wives and their sons and their daughters, for they were partakers of the holy things by their faithfulness. 
19 And the distributions were also made to the sons of Aaron the priests who dwelt in the fields surrounding their cities. So there were men designated by name in every city in order to distribute portions to all the males of the priests and to all the Levites who were registered. 
20 This is what Hezekiah did throughout all Judah. He did what was good and right and true before Yahweh his God. 
21 And in every work that he undertook for the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, in order to seek his God, he did it with all his heart and he prospered.
