1 After these things, these acts of faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria entered Judah and besieged the fortified cities, thinking that he would take them. 
2 And Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib were coming and that he was determined to fight against Jerusalem. 
3 Then he took counsel with his princes and his valiant men to stop the waters of the fountains that were outside the city, and they agreed with him. 
4 So many people gathered together, and they stopped all the fountains and the stream flowing through the country. For they said: Why should the kings of Assyria come and find plenty of water. 
5 And Hezekiah took courage, and rebuilt the broken wall, and raised it up to the towers, and built another wall outside, and strengthened Millo in the city of David, and prepared a great number of darts and shields. 
6 And Hezekiah appointed captains of war over the people, and assembled them to him in the broad place at the gate of the city, and Hezekiah spoke to them calmly with the following words. 
7 Be strong and have courage. Do not fear and do not be discouraged before the king of Assyria, or before all the multitude that is with him. For there is more with us than with him. 
8 For he has with him an arm of flesh, but we have with us Yahweh our God who will help us and who will fight our battles. Then the people comforted themselves in the words of Hezekiah king of Judah. 
9 After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem while he was besieging Lachish with all his army. He sent them to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all Judah who were in Jerusalem with the following words [for him and his servants]. 
10 Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria: What is this confidence on which you rely in order to stay in Jerusalem and endure a siege there. 
11 Have not Hezekiah deceived you to deliver you to death through famine and thirst by saying: Yahweh our God will save us out of the hand of the king of Assyria.
12 But is it not Hezekiah who has removed the high places and the altars of Yahweh. And Hezekiah has commanded to Judah and Jerusalem by saying: You will worship only before one altar and you will burn incense on it. [Now Sennacherib did not know all the details of the Jewish law and he thought that Hezekiah has offended his God by acting in this way.] 
13 Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of other lands. Have the gods of the nations of those lands been able to save their lands out of my hand. 
14 Who among all the gods of those nations that my fathers have destroyed was able to save his people out of our hand. Therefore why do you think that your God should be able to save you out of my hand. 
15 Now therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you or persuade you in this way, do not trust in him. For none of the gods of any other nation or kingdom has been able to save his people out of my hand and out of the hand of my fathers. It is therefore unlikely that your God will save you out of my hand. 
16 And the servants of Sennacherib spoke even more against Yahweh God and against his servant Hezekiah. 
17 And Sennacherib sent letters to insult Yahweh the God of Israel. For they spoke against him with the following words. As the gods of the nations of other lands have not been able to save their people out of my hand, so the God of Hezekiah will not save his people out of my hand. 
18 And the servants of Sennacherib cried out with a loud voice in the Jewish language to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, in order to frighten them and to disturb them, and thus take the city. 
19 Thus they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as of the gods of the peoples of the earth who are the works of the hands of men. 
20 Then Hezekiah the king and Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz prayed about this thing and cried to heaven. 
21 And Yahweh sent an angel who destroyed all the mighty men in the camp of the king of Assyria, and the princes [leaders] and the captains. So the king of Assyria returned with shame to his own land. And while he was worshiping in house of his god, those who came out of his own bowels [his sons] killed him there with the sword. 
22 Thus Yahweh saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib king of Assyria, and from the hand of all others. He protected them on every side.  
23 And many people brought gifts to Jerusalem for Yahweh, and also gifts for Hezekiah king of Judah. And Hezekiah was exalted in the sight of all nations from that time on. 
24 In those days Hezekiah became sick and was nearly dead. And Hezekiah prayed to Yahweh, and Yahweh spoke to him [by Isaiah the prophet] and gave him a sign. 
25 But Hezekiah did not behave wisely in reaction to the good works that God had done for him, for his heart had raised. Therefore the anger of Yahweh came on him, and on Judah, and on Jerusalem. 
26 Then Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the anger of Yahweh did not come on them during the days of Hezekiah. 
27 And Hezekiah had great riches and honor, and he made for himself treasuries of silver, and of gold, and of precious stones, and of spices, and of shields, and of all pleasant vessels. 
28 And storehouses for the produce of grain, and of wine, and of oil. And stalls for all kinds of beasts, and cotes for flocks. 
29 And Hezekiah built many cities, and he had flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him great wealth. 
30 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon, and made the waters flow straight down on the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works. 
31 However when the princes of Babylon sent messengers to Hezekiah to inquire of the wonder that had been done in the land, God left him in order to test him and to know all that was in his heart. 
32 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz, in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the highest of the sepulchers of the sons of David, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.
