1 In the thirty sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah. And Baasha built the city of Ramah to prevent the men of Asa king of Judah from going out and entering.
2 Then Asa took the silver and the gold from the treasures of the house of Yahweh and of the king's house, and sent it with the following words to Ben-hadad the king of Syria who lived in Damascus. 
3 Let there be a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold I am sending you silver and gold. Now therefore, go and break your covenant with Baasha the king of Israel so that he may depart from me. 
4 And Ben-Hadad listened to king Asa, and he sent the captains of his army against the cities of Israel, and they smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali. 
5 And when Baasha heard of it, then he stopped building Ramah and let his work cease.
6 Then king Asa assembled all Judah, and carried away the stones and the timber with which Baasha was building the city of Ramah, and Asa used them to build Geba and Mizpah. 
7 And Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah at that time and said to him: Because you have relied on the king of Syria, and have not relied on Yahweh your God, therefore the army of the king of Syria has escaped out of your hand. [Now Yahweh is known in Israel at that time only by his multiple commandments which include the Levites and the priests who are descendants of Aaron. And Syria is a potential enemy of Israel to whom Moses commanded not to make alliances with peoples who serve other gods]
8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a great army with a multitude of chariots and of horsemen. And yet Yahweh delivered them into your hand because you relied on him. 
9 For the eyes of Yahweh continuously watch the whole earth in order to provide an adequate assistance to each of those whose heart is perfect toward him. You have acted foolishly in this matter, therefore from now on you will have wars. 
10 Then Asa was angry with the seer because of what he said. And this thing displeased king Asa so much that he put the seer into a prison. And Asa also oppressed some of the people at that time. [All this happened during the last five years of Asa's reign]
11 And behold, the first and the last acts of Asa, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
12 And Asa was diseased in his feet in the thirty ninth year of his reign, and his disease was extreme. And Asa did not seek Yahweh even in this disease, but he only sought the physicians [at that time when Yahweh is known in Israel only by his multiple commandments which include the Levites and the priests who are descendants of Aaron]. 
13 So Asa died in the forty first year of his reign, and he slept with his fathers. 
14 And they buried him in one of his sepulchers, which he had made for himself in the city of David. They laid him on a bed that was filled with sweet odors and divers kinds of spices prepared by the art of the perfumer, and they burned a very large quantity of sweet odors to honor him.
