1 Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah [also called Azariah] who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the stead of his father Amaziah. 
2 And when king Amaziah had slept with his fathers, Uzziah his son rebuilt Eloth and restored it to Judah. 
3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah and she was from Jerusalem. 
4 And Uzziah did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 
5 And he sought God in the days of Zechariah who understood the visions of God. And God caused him to prosper during all the time when he sought Yahweh. 
6 For he went out to war against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod. And he built cities in the territory of Ashdod, and among the Philistines. 
7 And God helped him against the Philistines, against the Arabians who dwelt in Gur-baal and against the Meunim. 
8 And the Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah. And his name spread to the entrance of Egypt, for he became very powerful. 
9 Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and he fortified them. 
10 And he built towers in the wilderness, and dug many cisterns. For he had many cattle both in the valleys and in the plain, and plowmen and vinedressers in the mountains and in Carmel, for he loved agriculture. 
11 And Uzziah had also an army of soldiers who went to war by companies, according to their divisions established by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, and under the command of Hananiah who was one of the king's captains [leaders]. 
12 The total number of the chiefs of the families of the valiant men was two thousand and six hundred. 
13 And the army for war was under their hand and was made of three hundred and seven thousand and five hundred valiant soldiers who were ready to support the king against the enemy. 
14 And Uzziah provided each man of the army with shields, and spears, and helmets, and brigandines [armor], and bows, and stones for slingshots. 
15 And he made engines in Jerusalem, invented by skilful men and intended to be placed on the towers and on the corners, to shoot arrows and great stones. And his name spread far and wide, for God did helped him marvellously until he became powerful. 
16 But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his his destruction. For he transgressed against Yahweh his God by going into the temple of Yahweh to burn incense on the altar of incense. 
17 And Azariah the priest followed Uzziah there, and there were with him eighty priests of Yahweh who were valiant men. 
18 And they resisted Uzziah the king, and said to him: It is not lawful for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to Yahweh. For it is the exclusive responsibility of the priests, the sons of Aaron who are consecrated to burn incense. Get out of the sanctuary, for you have transgressed and this thing will not be for your honor in the sight of Yahweh God. 
19 Then Uzziah was angry, and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense. And as he was angry with the priests, a leprosy rose on his forehead. This happened before the priests, in the house of Yahweh, near the altar of incense. 
20 And Azariah the high priest and all the other priests looked at him and behold, he was leprous in his forehead. And they caused him to depart hastily from there, and he himself hastened to go out because Yahweh had smitten him. 
21 And Uzziah the king was a leper until the day of his death, and he dwelt in a separate house because he was a leper. So he could no longer come near the courtyards of the house of Yahweh. And Jotham his son was ruling over the king's house and was judging the people of the land. 
22 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Uzziah, the first and the last, Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz have written it. 
23 And Uzziah slept with his fathers. And they buried him near his fathers, but in the field of the burial places of the kings. For they said, He is a leper. And Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
