1 In the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam [the son of Nebat], Abijah began to reign over Judah. 
2 And Abijah reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother was Maacah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah [and of Tamar the daughter of Absalom]. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
3 And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of war, four hundred thousand chosen men. And Jeroboam also set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, all being strong and valiant. 
4 And Abijah stood up on the mount Zemaraim which is a part of the hill country of Ephraim, and said: Listen to me, O Jeroboam and all Israel. 
5 Should you not know that Yahweh the God of Israel has given David a royal position forever in Israel, to David and to his sons by a covenant of salt. 
6 And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his lord. 
7 And he was joined by worthless and wicked men, and they prevailed against Rehoboam the son of Solomon. For Rehoboam was young and had a tender heart, and he could not resist them. [This is obviously the personal point of view of Abijah, because it is not exactly what happened.] 
8 And now you think that you will triumph over the kingdom of Yahweh which is in the hand of the sons of David. And you are a great multitude, and you have with you [in your land] the golden calves that Jeroboam made so that they may be your gods. 
9 Have you not driven out the priests of Yahweh, namely the sons of Aaron and the Levites. And you have created among yourselves new priests [to be intermediaries between God and men], as is done by the peoples of other countries. Everyone who came with a young bullock and seven rams to be consecrated, the same could become a priest of that which are not gods. 
10 But as for us, Yahweh is our God and we have not forsaken him [this is obviously the personal point of view of Abijah]. For the priests who minister to Yahweh are the sons of Aaron, and the Levites fulfill their duties. 
11 We offer burnt offerings to Yahweh every morning and every evening, and also and sweet incense. We set the showbreads in order on the pure table, and we light the candlestick of gold with its lamps every evening, and thus we maintain the service of Yahweh our God. But you have forsaken him. 
12 And behold, this God is with us as a captain, and his priests also are there with the loud trumpets to sound them against you. O you the children of Israel, do not fight against Yahweh the God of your fathers because you will not prosper. 
13 But Jeroboam had set an ambush on them from behind. So a part of the troops of Jeroboam were in front of those of Judah, and another part was in ambush on the back of Judah. 
14 Then the men of Judah looked and behold, the battle was set before and behind them. And they cried to Yahweh, and the priests sounded the trumpets. 
15 And the men of Judah shouted. And when the men of Judah shouted, then God smote Jeroboam and also his army of Israel before Abijah and Judah. [Now Abijah and the people of Judah did indeed practice some aspects of the law given by Moses, but they did not behave in a way that was pleasing to the spirit of Yahweh. And God acted in this way in order to maintain the personal inheritance of David among the children of Jacob.] 
16 And the children of Israel fled before Judah, and God delivered them into the hand of Judah. 
17 And Abijah and his people killed them with a great massacre, and five hundred thousand chosen men of Israel fell down dead. 
18 So the children of Israel were defeated at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed because they wanted to rely on Yahweh the God of their fathers. 
19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam, and took cities from him: Bethel and its towns, and Jeshanah and its towns, and Ephron and its towns. 
20 And Jeroboam did not recover strength in the days of Abijah, and until Yahweh smote him and he died. 
21 So Abijah became strong [since his enemy was weak]. Abijah had fourteen wives throughout his life, and begot twenty two sons and sixteen daughters. [Abijah trusted in the promises that God made to David, but he was not loved by the spirit of Yahweh. And Abijah reigned only for three years and did not establish a useful inheritance of his own, because he and his people did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh. They had not abandoned the tribe of Levi which has a special function in the law of Moses, but had maintained the sanctification of multiple places of worship under all the green trees throughout their territories when there was no need since Solomon had built a house for the name of Yahweh. And there were Sodomites in the territory of the kingdom of Judah.] 
22 And the remaining of the acts of Abijah, and his ways and what he said, they are written in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.
