1 Then Solomon said: Yahweh wants to dwell in the darkness caused by the cloud. 
2 I have built a house in which you will dwell, a place where you will live forever. 
3 And the king turned his face and blessed all the congregation of Israel, for all the congregation of Israel stood there. 
4 And he said: Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who had spoken with his mouth to David my father, and who has fulfilled his word by his power. 
5 For he had said: Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of all the tribes of Israel to build there a house for my name [to replace the transportable tabernacle of Moses], and I have not chosen any man to be prince [namely to establish forever the legacy of his kingship] over my people Israel. 
6 But I have chosen Jerusalem for my name to dwell there, and I have chosen David to be over my people Israel. 
7 And David my father had in his heart the desire to build a house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
8 But Yahweh said to David my father: Since it is in your heart to build a house for my name, you have done well to have this intention. 
9 Nevertheless you will not build the house, but it is your son who will come out of your loins who will build the house for my name. 
10 And now Yahweh has fulfilled his word that he had spoken. For I have risen in the place of David my father, and I am sitting on the throne of Israel as Yahweh had promised, and I have built a house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
11 And I have placed there the ark which contains the covenant of Yahweh that he made with the children of Israel. 
12 Then Solomon stood before the altar of Yahweh in the sight of all the congregation of Israel, and he stretched out his hands. 
13 For Solomon had made a platform of brass and set it in the middle of the courtyard. It was five cubits in length, and five cubits in width, and three cubits high. And he stood there and knelt down on his knees before all the congregation of Israel, and stretched out his hands toward the heaven. 
14 And he said: O Yahweh the God of Israel, there is no God similar to you neither in the heaven nor on the earth. You keep your covenant and your mercy toward your servants who walk in your presence with all their hearts. 
15 So you have kept the promise that you had made to your servant David my father. For you have fulfilled today by your power what you had spoken with your mouth. 
16 Now therefore, O Yahweh the God of Israel, keep all that you have spoken to your servant David my father when you said: If your children pay attention to their ways in order to walk in my law as you have walked in my presence, then you will always have among them a successor in my sight who will sit on the throne of Israel. 
17 Now therefore, O Yahweh the God of Israel, I pray you to perform the whole promise that you have made to your servant David my father. 
18 But can God really dwell with man on the earth. Behold the heavens and the heavens of heavens cannot contain you. What then about this house that I have built for you. 
19 However be attentive to the prayer of your servant and his to supplication, O Yahweh my God. Listen to the cry and the prayer that your servant tells you. 
20 May your eyes be open toward this house day and night, because this is the place about which you have said, My name will be there. Listen therefore to the prayer that your servant makes in this place. 
21 Listen to the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Listen to them from your dwelling in the heaven and have mercy. 
22 When a man sins against his neighbor and one of them is caused to swear, and if he comes to swear before your altar in this house. 
23 Then hear from the heaven and act to judge your servants. Condemn the guilty by placing his wickedness on his head, and justify the righteous by repaying him according to his righteousness. 
24 When your people Israel are smitten by their enemy because they have sinned against you, if they turn again to you to glorify your name and if they come into this house to send you prayers and supplications. 
25 Then listen to them from the heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them back to the land that you gave to them and to their fathers. 
26 When the sky is closed and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray in this place and give glory to your name by turning themselves away from their sins because you have afflicted them. 
27 Then hear them in the heaven, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel. Teach them the right way in which they must walk, and send rain on the land that you have given to your people for an inheritance. 
28 If there is famine in the land because of insects like grashopper or caterpillar. If there is pestilence or any kind of diseases when the enemy besieged them in the cities of their land. 
29 If one of these things happens, and any man of the people of Israel makes prayers and supplications and stretches out his hands toward this house because of the wound of his heart. 
30 Then listen to them from your dwelling place in the heaven and be merciful, and repay everyone according to all his ways and your knowledge of his heart. For you are the only one who knows the heart of each of the children of men. 
31 And thus they will fear you, to walk in your ways as long as they will live in the land that you have given to our fathers. 
32 And when the stranger who is not of your people Israel will come here from a distant country because of your great name, and of your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm. When they will come to pray in this house. 
33 Then listen to them from your dwelling place in the heaven and do according to all that the stranger will ask to you. And thus all the peoples of the earth will know your name and will fear you like your people Israel fears you, and they will know that this house which I have built is called by your name. 
34 When your people go out to battle against their enemies after behaving in the way that you have commanded them, if they pray to you by looking toward this city that you have chosen and toward the house that I have built for your name. 
35 Then hear in the heaven their prayer and their supplication, and judge their cause. 
36 When they sin against you, because there is no one who does not sin, and you deliver them into the hands of their enemies because you are angry with them, and they are carried away captive either in a land far from their own land or nearby. 
37 If they change the ways of their hearts and return to the right path when they are in the land where they have been taken captive, if they return to you with prayers and supplications in the land of their captivity. If they say: We have sinned because we have transgressed and have acted wickedly. 
38 If they return to you with all their hearts and all their souls in the land of their captivity, where they have been carried away captive. And if they pray to you while looking toward their own land which you have given to their fathers, toward the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name. 
39 Then hear their prayers and their supplications at your dwelling place in the heaven, and judge their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned against you. 
40 And now, my God, I beseech to let your eyes be open and your ears be attentive to this prayer that I made in this place. 
41 Now therefore, O Yahweh God, arise and come to your place of rest, you and the ark of your majesty. Let your priests be clothed with salvation and let your saints rejoice in goodness, O Yahweh God.
42 Do not reject your anointed, O Yahweh God. Remember the mercies that you promised to David your servant.
