1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his stead. For the army that had come with the Arabians to the camp had killed all the other sons of Jehoram. Therefore Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned. 
2 Ahaziah was twenty two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri. 
3 And Ahaziah walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother incited him to act wickedly. 
4 So Ahaziah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh by walking in the ways of the house of Ahab, because they were his counsellors after the death of his father. And it caused his destruction. 
5 So he followed their advice, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to fight against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram [Jehoram]. 
6 And Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Azariah [Ahaziah] the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Jehoram [Joram] the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because Joram was sick. 
7 And it was by the will of God that Ahaziah went for his own destruction in order to see Joram. For when he arrived, he went out with Jehoram [Joram] to meet Jehu the son of Nimshi whom Yahweh had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab. 
8 And when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found the princes [leaders] of Judah and the sons of the brothers of Ahaziah who were going to meet Ahaziah, and he killed them. 
9 And Jehu sought Ahaziah, and they caught him in Samaria where he had hidden himself. And they brought him to Jehu and killed him. And they buried him [they allowed him to be buried] because they said, He is the son [grandson] of Jehoshaphat who sought Yahweh with all his heart. And the house of Ahaziah had no more power to keep the kingship. 
10 Therefore when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, then she arose and destroyed all the royal seed of the house of Judah.
11 But Jehoshabeath the daughter of the previous king took away Joash the son of Ahaziah from among the king's sons who were to be killed. She took both him and his nurse, and put them in a bedroom. So Jehoshabeath the daughter of king Jehoram, who was the sister of Ahaziah [through another mother] and the wife of Jehoiada the priest, hid Joash from Athaliah to save his life. 
12 And Joash was with them hidden in the house of God for six years [In this house built by Solomon, there are multiple rooms in addition to the holy place and the most holy place], while Athaliah was reigning in the land of Judah.
