1 And when Rehoboam had established the kingdom and made it strong, then he forsook the law of Yahweh, he and all Israel. 
2 Therefore in the fifth year of the reign of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. It happened because they had transgressed against Yahweh. 
3 Shishak came with one thousand and two hundred chariots, and sixty thousand horsemen. And there was also with him a multitude of people who had come from Egypt, namely the Lubims, and the Sukkiims, and the Ethiopians. 
4 And he took the fortified cities that belonged to Judah, and then he came to Jerusalem. 
5 Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and to the princes of Judah who had gathered together in Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them: Thus says Yahweh, You have forsaken me, and therefore I also have given you into the hand of Shishak. 
6 Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said: Yahweh is honest. 
7 And when Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah by saying: They have humbled themselves, therefore I will not destroy them. And I will not delay to help them, for my wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem by Shishak. 
8 Nevertheless they will be his servants, and thus they will know the difference between being in my service and being in the service of the kingdoms of other lands. 
9 Then Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took the treasures of the house of Yahweh and the treasures of the king's house. He took everything. He also took the shields of gold that Solomon had made. 
10 And king Rehoboam made in their stead shields of brass, and he handed them over to the care of the chief of the guard who guarded the entrance to the king's house. 
11 And whenever the king went into the house of Yahweh, the guards took these shields and went with him, and brought them back when they returned to the guard room. 
12 And because Rehoboam humbled himself, therefore Yahweh turned away his anger from him and did not utterly destroy him. And things prospered in Judah also. 
13 So king Rehoboam strengthened himself [again] in Jerusalem and reigned. For Rehoboam was forty one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem which is the city that Yahweh had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah, and she was an Ammonite. 
14 And he had done what is evil because he did not decide in his heart to seek Yahweh. 
15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, the first and the last, are they not written in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning genealogies. And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 
16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David. And Abijah his son reigned in his stead.
