1 And [after a few years] Hezekiah sent messengers to all Israel and Judah, and he also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, so that they should come to the house of Yahweh at Jerusalem to celebrate the passover for Yahweh the God of Israel. 
2 For the king and his princes [leaders] and the whole congregation of Jerusalem had taken counsel [with the priests] in order to celebrate the passover in the second month. 
3 For they could not celebrate it in its time [in the first month as it is prescribed by the law], because the priests had not been many to sanctify themselves and the people had not had the opportunity to gather together in Jerusalem. 
4 And the agreement had pleased the king and the whole assembly. 
5 And they had decided to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, in order to come to Jerusalem and celebrate the passover for Yahweh the God of Israel, because this event had no longer been celebrated by the multitude as it is prescribed by the written law [Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the first king of the partial kingdom of Israel made of ten tribes, had created in his kingdom alternatives to the house of Yahweh which was in the kingdom of Judah]. 
6 So the king and his princes [leaders] sent messengers throughout all Israel and Judah with letters written according to the commandment of the king. And these letters contained the following message: You the children of Israel, turn again to Yahweh the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Israel [Jacob]. And thus he will return to you, you the remnant who have escaped from the hands of the kings of Assyria [Now a large part of the population had been taken into captivity by the kings of Assyria. A king had taken those who were on the other side of the Jordan, the two tribes and the half tribe, and another king had taken those were on this side of the Jordan]. 
7 Do not be like your fathers and like your brothers who have transgressed against Yahweh the God of their fathers, and whom he has delivered to the desolation as you see it. 
8 Do not stiffen your neck like your fathers, but give your hand to Yahweh and come to his sanctuary that he has sanctified forever. Serve Yahweh your god, and his fierce anger will turn away from you. 
9 For if you return to Yahweh then your brothers and children will find mercy before those who have taken them captive, and they will return to this land. For Yahweh your God is compassionate and merciful, therefore he will not turn away his face from you if you return to him. 
10 So the messengers went from city to city throughout the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the way to Zebulun. But they made fun of the messengers, and laughed at the message. 
11 Nevertheless there were people of Asher and Manasseh and Zebulun [and also from other places] who humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. 
12 And the hand of God was in Judah to give them one heart so that they may do the commandment of the king and of the princes concerning the word of Yahweh. 
13 And a numerous people assembled at Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of unleavened bread in the second month. It was a very great assembly. 
14 And they arose and removed the altars for sacrifices that were in Jerusalem, and they removed all the altars for incense, and they cast those things into the valley of Kidron. 
15 Afterward they killed [the sacrifices of] the passover on the fourteenth day of the second month. And the other priests and Levites were ashamed [namely those who did not want to actively participate in this seven-day celebration which was for all the assembly which was delayed by one month compared to the law], and they sanctified themselves and brought the burnt offerings into the house of Yahweh. 
16 And they stood in their ordinary place in accordance with the law of Moses the man of God, and the priests sprinkled the blood which they received from the hand of the Levites. 
17 For there were many in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves. Therefore it was the Levites who were killing the victims of the passover for every one who was not clean, in order to sanctify it before Yahweh. 
18 For a multitude of the people, many of Ephraim, and of Manasseh, and of Issachar, and of Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves. And yet they ate the passover and therefore did not act according to the written law. But Hezekiah prayed for them with the following words. 
19 May the good Yahweh forgive the one who has prepared his whole heart to seek God Yahweh, the God of his fathers, and who did not remember or who did not have time to purify himself in the manner required by the law. 
20 And Yahweh heard Hezekiah, and forgive the people. 
21 And the children of Israel who were present at Jerusalem celebrated the feast of unleavened bread for seven days with great joy. And every day the Levites and the priests praised Yahweh by singing with loud instruments of music to Yahweh. 
22 And Hezekiah spoke comfortably to all the Levites who were accustomed to teach the good knowledge of Yahweh, so that they think about continuing during another period [after the end of the seven days of celebration ordered by law] to eat, and to offer peace offerings, and to praise Yahweh the God of their fathers. 
23 And the whole assembly agreed to continue to rejoice together for another seven days [after having complied with the law concerning the duration and method of the feast of unleavened bread, a feast which had been instituted to celebrate the liberation of the children of Israel from the land of Egypt]. So they happily made a feast for seven more days. 
24 For Hezekiah king of Judah had given one thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep to the assembly, and the princes [leaders] had given one thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep to the assembly. And a great number of priests had sanctified themselves [to be able to offer sacrifices in the temple of Yahweh]. 
25 And all the assembly of Judah rejoiced with the priests and the Levites, and with all the people who had come from [the land of the ten tribes of] Israel, and with all the strangers who dwelt either in Judah or in the land of [the ten tribes of] Israel. 
26 So there was a great joy in Jerusalem. For there had not been such a thing in Jerusalem since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel [partly because the people had split into two kingdoms after that time]. 
27 Then the priests and the Levites stood up and blessed the people, and their voice was heard, and their prayer went up to the heaven and as far as to his holy habitation [in the heaven].
