1 And the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, and she came to test Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem. She arrived with a very numerous entourage, and with camels carrying spices, and with gold in large quantities, and with precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart. 
2 And Solomon answered all her questions, and there was nothing that Solomon could not explain to her. 
3 Then the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built.
4 And the food of his table, and the dwelling of his servants, and the functions of those who served him, and their apparel, and his cupbearers and their apparel, and the burnt offerings that he offered in the house of Yahweh. Therefore she was greatly astonished.
5 And she said to the king: It was is a true report that I have heard in my own land about your great works and your wisdom.
6 I had not believe their report but now I have come and have seen it with my eyes. And behold, I had not been told the half of your great wisdom. For you exceed the fame that I had heard.
7 Your people are fortunate, and your servants who continually stand before you are fortunate because they can hear your wisdom. 
8 Blessed be Yahweh your God who has loved you to set you on his throne as king in the stead of Yahweh your God. It is because your God loves Israel and desires to establish them forever, therefore he has made you king over them to practice justice by judging his people with fairness.
9 Then she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, and a very large quantity of spices, and precious stones. No one has no longer brought spices of such quality in Israel, like those that the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon. 
10 And the servants of Huram who had gone with the servants of Solomon to bring gold from Ophir, they brought also Almug trees and precious stones.
11 And the king used the Almug trees to make staircases for the house of Yahweh and for the king's house, and also harps and psalteries for the singers. Such Almug trees had never been seen before in the land of Judah.
12 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba every pleasant thing that she asked, and he also gave her gifts so that there would be reciprocity concerning the gifts that she had brought to the king. Then she departed and went to her own country, both she and her servants. 
13 The weight of gold that came to Solomon on that year was six hundred and sixty six talents of gold.
14 And this was in addition to what he collected as a tax from the traders and merchants. And also all the kings of Arabia and the governors of his country brought gold and silver to Solomon.
15 And king Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold, and he used six hundred shekels of beaten gold for each of them.
16 And also three hundred [smaller] shields of beaten gold, with three hundred shekels of gold per shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon. 
17 Then the king made a great throne of ivory, and he overlaid it with pure gold. 
18 And the throne had six steps to get there, with a footstool of gold fastened to the throne, and there were armrests on each side on the place of the seat, and two lions standing near the armrests.
19 And twelve lions stood there on the six steps on each side. There was nothing similar in any other kingdom.
20 And all the drinking utensils of king Solomon were of gold, and all the utensils of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. For the availability of gold had diminished the value of silver during the days of Solomon. 
21 For the king had ships that went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram. And the navy of Tarshish came every three years bringing gold, and silver, and ivory, and apes, and peacocks. 
22 So king Solomon was greater than all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. 
23 And all the kings of the earth sought to see Solomon to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart. 
24 And each of them brought his gift, and among these gifts were utensils of silver, and utensils of gold, and clothing, and armor, and spices, and horses, and mules. It was like this every year. 
25 And Solomon had four thousand stalls of horses, and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placed them in the chariots cities and also with the king [himself] in Jerusalem. 
26 And Solomon ruled over all the kings from the river Euphrates to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt. 
27 And the king made Jerusalem so rich that silver was as common as stones, and cedars as numerous as the wild fig trees that grow abundantly in the plain. 
28 And they brought horses for Solomon out of Egypt, and out of all lands. 
29 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Solomon, the first and the last, are they not written in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
30 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 
31 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.
