1 Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
2 And when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, he was still in Egypt where he had fled from king Solomon in order to dwell there. Therefore Jeroboam returned from Egypt.
3 And they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all Israel came to Rehoboam and spoke to him with the following words.
4 Your father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore lighten this harsh servitude of your father, and the heavy yoke that he did put on us, and we will serve you.
5 And he said to them, Go now and come again to me in three days [to get an answer]. And the people departed. 
6 And king Rehoboam consulted the elders who had stood before his father Solomon when he was alive, and he said: What advice do you give me so that I may answer to this people.
7 And they spoke to him with the following words: If you act kindly towards this people, if you please them and speak to them with love, then they will be your servants forever.
8 But Rehoboam did not want to follow the advice that the elders had given to him, therefore he consulted the young men who had grown up with him and who stood before him.
9 And he said to them, What do you advise me to answer to this people who has spoken to me by saying: Lighten the yoke that your father did put on us. 
10 And the young men who had grown up with him spoke to him with the following words: You will answer thus to this people who has spoken to you by saying, Your father made our yoke heavy but we want you to lighten it for us. You will answer them thus, My little finger is bigger than my father's kidneys.
11 And where now my father had placed a grievous yoke on you, I will make it heavier for you. For my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
12 Then Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king had ordered by saying: Come again to me in three days.
13 And the king responded harshly to the people, and he did not want to follow the advice that the elders had given to him.
14 And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men. And he said: My father made your yoke grievous, and I will make it more grievous. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
15 So the king did not listen to the people. For it was a thing directed by God in order to fulfill the word that he had spoken by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 
16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not want to listen to them, then the people answered the king by saying: What portion do we have in David. We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Let every man go to his tent, O Israel. And worry about your own house from now on, David. So all Israel went to their tents.
17 And the children of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah were the only ones over whom Rehoboam reigned. 
18 For king Rehoboam sent Hadoram [in the territory of those who have said that they no longer wanted him as king]. He sent Hadoram there to talk about taxes because Adoram was a tax collector, but all Israel stoned Hadoram to death with stones. Then king Rehoboam hastened to get into a chariot and to flee to Jerusalem.
19 This is how Israel had separated itself from the house of David to this day.
