1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and Jehoshaphat prevailed against Israel. 
2 And he put troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had taken. 
3 And Yahweh was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of David his father, and did not seek Baalim [the false gods]. 
4 For Jehoshaphat sought Yahweh the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and did not imitate the doings of the kingdom of Israel. 
5 Therefore Yahweh established the kingdom in the hand of Jehoshaphat. And all Judah brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, so that he had riches and honor in abundance.
6 And the heart of Jehoshaphat grew in the ways of Yahweh, and Jehoshaphat removed the high places and the groves from Judah. 
7 And in the third year of his reign, Jehoshaphat sent his leaders to teach in the cities of Judah. These leaders were Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah. 
8 And Jehoshaphat sent with them the Levites. There were Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, the Levites. And also Elishama and Jehoram the priests. 
9 And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Yahweh with them. And they went throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people. 
10 And the fear of Yahweh fell on all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat. 
11 And some of the Philistines brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, and silver for tribute. And the Arabians brought him livestock, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred male goats. 
12 So Jehoshaphat prospered and was very great. And he built castles and cities for storehouses in Judah. 
13 And Jehoshaphat did many work in the cities of Judah, and his valiant men of war were in Jerusalem. 
14 And this was their numbering according to their fathers' houses. Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and three hundred thousand valiant men with him. 
15 And next to him was Jehohanan a captain, and two hundred and eighty thousand men with him. 
16 And next to him was Amaziah the son of Zichri, who had willingly dedicated himself to Yahweh, and who had two hundred thousand valiant men. 
17 And of Benjamin: Eliada a valiant man, who had two hundred thousand men armed with bow and shield. 
18 And next to him was Jehozabad, who had one hundred and eighty thousand men armed for war. 
19 These were the king's servants, besides those whom the king had placed in all the fortified cities of Judah.
