1 When Solomon had finished this prayer, a fire descended from the sky and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of Yahweh was filling the house. 
2 And the priests could not enter the house of Yahweh, because the glory of Yahweh had filled the house of Yahweh. 
3 And all the children of Israel saw that the fire had come from heaven and that the glory of Yahweh was filling the house. Therefore they bowed themselves with their faces against the ground on the pavement, and worshiped and praised Yahweh by saying: For he is good, because his mercy endures forever. 
4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before Yahweh. 
5 And the sacrifice [of peace offerings] that Solomon offered to Yahweh was twenty two thousand bullocks, and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. Thus the king and all the people dedicated the house of God. 
6 And the priests stood according to their functions, and also the singers of the Levites with instruments of music of Yahweh. King David had made those instruments to praise Yahweh because his mercy endures forever, when David praised God by them. So there was a group of priests who were sounding trumpets before the singers of the Levites, and all Israel were standing there. 
7 Moreover Solomon hollowed the middle of the part of the courtyard that was in front of the house of Yahweh. For there he prepared burnt offerings and the fat of peace offerings, because the altar of brass which Solomon had made was not able to contain the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the fat. 
8 And Solomon made a feast at that time during seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt. 
9 And on the eighth day they had a solemn assembly [according to the law of the feast of tabernacles]. For they had made the dedication of the altar [more precisely of the house of Yahweh] for seven days, and after that they had made the feast [of the tabernacles] for seven days. 
10 And on the twenty third day of the seventh month, Solomon sent the people away to their tents [their own places]. And they were joyful with happy hearts because of the goodness that Yahweh had done for David, and for Solomon, and for Israel his people. 
11 So Solomon finished the house of Yahweh, and the king's house, and all that came into the heart of Solomon to make in the house of Yahweh. And Solomon prospered in his own house. 
12 And Yahweh appeared to Solomon during a night and said to him: I have heard your prayer, and have chosen this place for myself to be an house of sacrifice. 
13 If I close the heavens so that there is no rain, or I if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people. 
14 If my people among whom my name is invoked humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn away from their wicked ways, then I will hear in the heaven and forgive their sin, and I will heal their land. 
15 For my eyes will be open and my ears will be attentive to the prayers made in this place. 
16 For I have chosen and sanctified this house, so that my name may be there forever. So I will always have my eyes and my heart there. 
17 And if you walk in my presence as David your father had walked, by doing according to all that I have commanded you. And if you keep my statutes and my judgments. 
18 Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom according to the covenant that I made with David your father when I said: You will never lack a successor to be ruler in Israel [your own inheritance will always be useful for my people Israel]. 
19 But if you [you and your people] turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have set before you, and if you go to serve other gods and worship them. 
20 Then I will pluck them out of my land which I have given them, and I will reject far from me this house that I have sanctified for my name, and I will make it a proverb and a subject of mockery among all peoples.
21 And despite the fact that this house will have been exalted, whoever will come there at that time will be astonished and will say: Why has Yahweh done thus to this land and to this house. 
22 And they will answer: Because they have forsaken Yahweh the God of their fathers, the one who brought them out of the land of Egypt. For they have gone to other gods to worship them and serve them, this is why he has brought all these evil on them.
