1 Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and made him king in Jerusalem in the stead of his father. 
2 And Jehoahaz was twenty three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. 
3 And the king of Egypt took him away from Jerusalem and imposed a tribute of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold on the land of Jehoahaz. 
4 And Neco king of Egypt made Eliakim the brother of Jehoahaz king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Neco took Jehoahaz the brother of Jehoiakim and carried him to Egypt. 
5 And Jehoiakim was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem, and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh his God. 
6 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against Jehoiakim, and bonded him with chains to carried him to Babylon. 
7 And Nebuchadnezzar also carried some of the utensils of the house of Yahweh to Babylon, and put them in his palace at Babylon. 
8 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and what was found in him, behold they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead. 
9 Jehoiachin was eight [eighteen] years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem, and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. 
10 And at the end of the year, king Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought Jehoiachin to Babylon with the precious utensils of the house of Yahweh. And Nebuchadnezzar made Zedekiah the half brother of the father of Jehoiachin king over Judah and Jerusalem. 
11 And Zedekiah was twenty one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. 
12 And Zedekiah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh his God, and he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet who gave him the words of Yahweh. [In other words, Zedekiah was not moved by the warning of the prophet.] 
13 And Zedekiah also rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar who had caused him to swear by God. And Zedekiah stiffened his neck and hardened his heart so as not to return to Yahweh the God of Israel. 
14 And all the chiefs of the priests and of the people transgressed greatly according to all the abominations of the nations, and they profaned the house of Yahweh which he had sanctified in Jerusalem. 
15 Therefore Yahweh the God of their fathers sent his messengers [prophets] again and again to warn them, because he wanted to spare his people and his own dwelling place [which is the house that he had chosen to put his name there]. 
16 But they mocked the messengers of God and despised his words. They misused his prophets until there was no remedy for the wrath of Yahweh toward his people. 
17 For God brought against them the king of the Chaldeans who killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary. And he spared neither the young man, nor the virgin woman, nor the mature man, nor the gray-haired man. God gave them all into the hand of the king of the Chaldeans. 
18 And [the servants of] Nebuchadnezzar carried to Babylon all utensils of the house of God [which were found at that time], great and small, and the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the king and of his princes [leaders]. 
19 And they burned the house of God and broke down the walls of Jerusalem, and burned all the palaces, and destroyed all the precious objects. 
20 And those who escaped from the sword were carried away captives to Babylon, and they served Nebuchadnezzar and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia. 
21 In order to fulfill the word of Yahweh spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah, the land remained desolate until it had enjoyed its sabbath. The land rested until the seventy years were completed. 
22 And in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia [that is to say, the first year after he conquered the kingdom of Babylon], in order to fulfill the word of Yahweh spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah, Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia and he made the following proclamation throughout all his kingdom, both by word of mouth and in writing. 
23 Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: Yahweh the God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has commanded me to build him a house in Jerusalem which is in Judah. Who among you is of his people. May Yahweh his God be with him, and let him go up.
