1 For we know that when this tabernacle which is our earthly house is destroyed, namely our bodies, we will have in heavens a building that is not made with hands like those in which men dwell here on earth, an eternal dwelling place that is the work of God. 
2 Therefore we groan, desiring to be clothed with our heavenly home. 
3 Because we know that we will not be found naked [concerning our good deeds done on earth], but clothed [with our repentance and our perseverance in the faith]. 
4 For while we are in this tabernacle which is our earthly bodies, we who have become disciples are burdened and we groan, not because we want the destruction of our earthly bodies, but because we desire to clothe ourselves with worthy deeds so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. 
5 And the one who has formed us for this purpose is God, who has given us his Holy Spirit that is now working within us. 
6 Therefore we are always full of confidence, and we know that by remaining in this body we remain far from the Lord [who is preparing for us, through our deeds, a heavenly dwelling place with himself]. 
7 For we walk by faith, and not by sight. 
8 We are full of confidence, and we prefer to leave this body and to dwell in the heaven with the Lord. 
9 This is also why we strive to be pleasing to him, whether we remain in this body or whether we leave it. 
10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that every one may receive according to the good or evil that he has done while being in his earthly body. 
11 Therefore knowing the fear of the Lord, we seek to persuade men. God knows us, and I hope that you too know us in your consciences. 
12 We are not recommending ourselves to you again, but we are giving you reasons to be proud of us, so that you may be able to respond to those who glory in appearance and not in the things of the heart. 
13 For if we seem to have lost our minds, it is because we want to please God. And if we seem to have some common sense, it is because we want to edify you.
14 For the love of Christ presses us, because we consider that if one has died for all, then all have died. 
15 And he died for all so that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for the one who died and rose from the dead for them. 
16 So from now on we know no one according to the flesh. And although we have known Christ according to the flesh, now we no longer know him in this way. 
17 If anyone is in Christ, then he has become a new creature. The old things are past, and behold, all things have become new. 
18 And all this is from God, who has reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation. 
19 For God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, without imputing their sins to them [namely the strange things that they did for themselves or for a certain god without intending to offend others in an unjustifiable manner], and he has put within us the word of reconciliation. 
20 Therefore we act as ambassadors for Christ, as if God were exhorting through us. We implore you in the name of Christ to do the following thing: Be reconciled to God. 
21 The one who knew no sin, God caused him to be sin for us [while he was living in the flesh among the Jews who have a particular law inspired by God], so that we may become righteous before God through him.
