1 Are we beginning to commend ourselves again. Or do we need, as some do, letters of recommendation to you or letters of recommendation from you. 
2 You yourselves are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read by all men. 
3 You are manifestly a letter of Christ written by our ministry, not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of flesh which are your hearts. 
4 And this confidence that we have before God comes from Christ. 
5 It is not to say that we are by ourselves capable of conceiving something as coming from ourselves. Our ability, on the contrary, comes from God. 
6 And he has also enabled us to be ministers of the new covenant, not of the letter but of the spirit. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. [Now the letter kills because there is no personal initiative when everyone does the same thing. For the letter prevents each person from seeking his own presence in eternal life.] 
7 Now if the ministry that brought death, and that was engraved in letters on stone, was so glorious that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, although that glory was fleeting. 
8 How much more glorious will the ministry of the Spirit be. 
9 For if the ministry of condemnation was glorious, how much more glorious is the ministry of righteousness. 
10 For what was glorious was not as glorious as that which surpasses it excessively in glory. [That is to say, the pedagogy of righteousness cannot be as glorious as righteousness itself.] 
11 For if what was temporary was glorious, how much more glorious is that which is permanent. 
12 Therefore, since we have such a confidence, we are being very bold in our statements. 
13 And we are not like Moses, who did put a veil over his face so that the children of Israel should not look on the end of that which was fleeting. 
14 But their minds have been blinded. For until this day the same veil remains when they read the old testament, and it is not taken away because it is only in Christ that it disappears. 
15 To this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil covers their hearts. 
16 But when their hearts turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away. 
17 Now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. [Now this freedom means that a disciple of Jesus can do whatever he wants provided that no one is offended in a publicly unjustifiable way.] 
18 And we all [the disciples of Jesus], with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into his unique image, and we are constantly growing from one degree of glory to the next, as by the Lord who is the Spirit.
