1 Since we are working with God, we entreat you not to receive the grace of God in vain. 
2 For he says: I have heard you at an acceptable time, and I have succored you in the day of [your] salvation. [Now this is a rephrasing of what God says in the scriptures concerning the children of Jacob whom he delivered from bondage in Egypt.] 
3 Behold now is the favorable time, behold now is the day of salvation. We give no offense in anything, so that our ministry may not be blamed. 
4 But in all things we commend ourselves as ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in need, in distresses. 
5 In whips, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors. 
6 By sleepless nights, by fastings, by purity, by knowledge, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy Spirit, by sincere love. 
7 By the word of truth, by the power of God, by the weapons of righteousness on the right hand and on the left. 
8 Through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report. As deceivers, and yet we are truthful. 
9 As unknown, and yet we are well known. As dying, and behold, we are alive. As chastened, and yet we are not killed. 
10 As sorrowful, and yet we are always rejoicing. As poor, and yet we are making many rich. As having nothing, and yet we are possessing all things. 
11 Our mouth is open to you, O Corinthians, our heart is enlarged. 
12 You are not straitened in us, but you have straitened your own bowels. 
13 And now reward us by enlarging yourselves also, I speak as to my children. 
14 Do not place yourself with the disbelievers under a strange yoke [that to say, it is not because you have the right to do everything that you should seek the company of those who have strange behaviors]. For what fellowship has righteousness with iniquity. Or what communion has light with darkness. 
15 And what harmony is there between Christ and Belial. Or what portion has a believer with an disbeliever. 
16 And what agreement is there between the temple of God and idols. For we are the temple of the living God, as God has said: I will dwell among them, and walk there. I will be their God, and they will be my people. 
17 Therefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Touch no unclean thing, and I will receive you. 
18 And I will be a father for you, and you will be sons and daughters for me, says the Lord Almighty. [Now this is a rephrasing of what God says in the scriptures concerning the children of Jacob whom he delivered from bondage in Egypt.] 
