1 I wish you could bear me when I am a little foolish. And indeed you already bear me [since anyway I am already foolish in the sight of the men of the world because of my love for the Lord Jesus]. 
2 For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, because I have betrothed you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. 
3 But I am afraid that, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, so your minds may somehow be led astray from the simplicity and the purity that are in Christ. 
4 For if someone comes and preaches a different Jesus than the one whom we have preached, or if you receive a different spirit than the one that you have received from us, or a different gospel than the one that you have accepted from us, then you adapt to it quite easily. 
5 Now I consider myself in no way inferior to these preeminent apostles. [That is to say, the quality of the teachings that I have given you is not inferior to that of the different teachings that some other persons who claim to be apostles may give you.] 
6 For I am not unskilled in knowledge, although I am unskilled in speaking. We have demonstrated it to you in every possible way and in all things. 
7 Have I committed an offense by humbling myself so that you might be exalted. For I have preached the gospel of God to you without asking for reward for myself. 
8 I have robbed other churches by receiving a support from them, in order to be able to serve you [while I was with you]. 
9 For when I was with you and needed something, I was not a burden to anyone. For the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied what I needed. In everything I have kept myself from being a burden to you, and I will continue to do so. 
10 As surely as the truth of Christ is in me, this boast will not be taken away from me in the regions of Achaia. 
11 Why. Is it because I do not love you. God knows that it is not the case. 
12 But I am acting and will continue to act in this way [among you], in order to remove this pretext from those who seek a pretext, so that they may be found to be like us in the things of which they boast. 
13 For such men are false apostles. They are deceitful workers who disguise themselves as apostles of Christ. 
14 And this is not surprising, since Satan himself disguises himself as an angel of light. 
15 It is therefore not surprising that his ministers also masquerade as ministers of righteousness. But their end will be according to their works. 
16 I repeat it, let no one regard me as a fool. Otherwise, give me still a place in your hearts even if it is by receiving me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little. 
17 What I am saying, with the confidence of having reason to boast, I am not saying it according to the way of the Lord, but as if in foolishness. 
18 Since there are many who boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. 
19 For you gladly tolerate fools, you who should have been wise [through the teachings that I had instilled in you]. 
20 For if someone enslaves you, if someone devours you, if someone takes advantage of you, if someone is arrogant, if someone strikes you in the face, then you tolerate it. [That is to say, you are ready to forget the teachings of Christ that we have given you and to accept false teachings that do not honor you.] 
21 I am ashamed to say it, but I realize that we have shown weakness towards you in the way with which we have instructed you. And now, whatever anyone else dares to do toward you, I also will dare to do it. I speak as if by foolishness. 
22 Are they Hebrews. Me too. Are they Israelites. Me too. Are they descendants of Abraham [according to the flesh]. Me too. 
23 Are they ministers of Christ. I speak as a man who is out of his mind. I am even more so. Regarding labors, I have labored more abundantly. Regarding imprisonments, I have been imprisoned much more often. Regarding the fact of having been whipped, I have been whipped beyond measure. And I have been near death many times. 
24 Five times I received from the Jews forty lashes minus one [with a whip].
25 I have been beaten with rods three times. One time I have been stoned with stones. I have been shipwrecked three times, and one of those times I spent the night and the next day in the sea. 
26 I have been frequently on journeys, in danger from rivers, in danger from robbers, in danger from my own countrymen [that is to say, the Jews], in danger from Gentiles, in danger in the city, in danger in the wilderness, in danger on the sea, in danger among false brothers [that is to say, deceivers who claimed to be disciples of Jesus]. 
27 I have been in toil and hardship, often without sleep, in hunger and thirst, often in fastings, in cold and nakedness. 
28 And in addition to these things suffered by my body, I am anxious every day about the condition of all the churches. 
29 Who is the disciple of Jesus who will say that he is weak, without me having myself been weak in the things that I have suffered. Who is the disciple who will say that he is stumbling in his endurance on the way of the Lord, without this making me burn because I myself have endured extreme situations without turning away from the Lord. 
30 If I must boast, I will boast about the things that show my weakness. 
31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ [namely the Holy Spirit], who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. 
32 In Damascus, the governor under king Aretas had the city of the Damascenes watched by soldiers in order to seize me. 
33 But I was lowered in a basket through a window in the wall, and that is how I escaped from his hands.
