1 Brothers, we want you to know the grace of God that has been manifested in the churches of Macedonia. 
2 In the midst of many tribulations which tested them, their overflowing joy and deep poverty have abundantly produced rich liberalities on their part. 
3 They have, I attest, given voluntarily according to their resources, and even beyond their resources. 
4 Asking us with great entreaties for the grace to take part in the assistance intended for the saints. 
5 And they contributed not only as much as we could have hoped, but after first giving themselves to the Lord, they also gave themselves to us by the will of God. 
6 Therefore we have exhorted Titus to complete this charitable work with you, as he had begun it. 
7 Just as you excel in all things, in faith, and in speech, and in knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love for us, make sure that you also excel in this charitable work. 
8 I do not say this thing to give you an order, but to test the sincerity of your love toward us through the zeal of others. 
9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Although he was rich, he became poor for your sake so that you may be enriched through his poverty. 
10 I have simply given an opinion on this matter. For it is convenient for you, who not only have been the first to have the will last year, but who have been also the first to give [donations for the saints]. 
11 And now you can complete your action, so that the accomplishment according to your resources responds to the eagerness that you have shown in your desire. 
12 When there is a good will, it is pleasant because of what it has at its disposal and not according to what it does not have. 
13 It is not a question of exposing yourself to distress in order to relieve others. 
14 In the present circumstance your superfluity will provide for their needs, so that their superfluity may provide for your need later, so that there may be equality. 
15 As it is written: He who had gathered more had nothing too much and he who had gathered less did not lack. 
16 Thanks be to God for putting in the heart of Titus the same eagerness for you. 
17 For he has accepted our request, but he wanted to come to you of his own free will. 
18 And we have sent with him the brother whose praise concerning his service for the gospel is spread throughout all the churches. 
19 And not only that, but he was also chosen by the churches to travel with us in the matter of this grace. We are doing this service for the glory of the Lord, and as a testimony to our good will. 
20 We do this so that no one may blame us in this abundant collection to which we give our care. 
21 For we seek what is good, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. 
22 And we have sent with them our brother, whose zeal we have often experienced on many occasions, and who shows it even more this time because of the great confidence that he has in you. 
23 So concerning Titus, he is my partner and my fellow worker in the work that I do for you. And concerning our brothers, they are the messengers of the churches, they are the glory of Christ. 
24 Show them the proof of your love in the sight of the churches, and show them that we have reason to glory in you.
