1 It is superfluous for me to write to you concerning the assistance for the saints. 
2 For I know your willingness, of which I have boasted about you to the Macedonians, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has been the cause of the eagerness of many of them. 
3 And now I have sent the brothers so that our pride in you concerning this matter may not be in vain. I want you to be ready, as I had said [to the Macedonians] that you would be. 
4 Otherwise, if some of the Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, then we, not to mention you, will be put to shame concerning this confidence.
5 Therefore I thought it necessary to ask the brothers to come to you before us, in order to take care of setting aside your already promised donation, so that it may be ready as a generous gift and not as something given reluctantly. 
6 Remember the following thing: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. 
7 Let each of you give according to what he has resolved in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion. For God loves a cheerful giver. 
8 And God is able to bless you abundantly so that, always having all sufficiency in all things, you may abound in every good work. 
9 As it is written: He has scattered abroad, he has given to the poor. His righteousness endures forever. 
10 Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will also supply and increase your store of seed, and will enlarge the harvest of your righteousness. 
11 You will be enriched in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion, and through us your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God.
12 For the succor of this assistance not only provides for the needs of the saints, but is also an abundant source of many thanksgiving to God. 
13 In consideration of this help which they will experience, they will praise God for your obedience in professing the gospel of Christ, and for the generosity of your gifts to them and to all. 
14 And you will be a source of inspiration for their prayers, because they will love you on account of the surpassing grace that God has given you. 
15 Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift.
