1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, and to all the saints who are in all Achaia. 
2 May grace and peace be given to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
3 Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. 
4 He comforts us in all our affliction to such an extent that, through the comfort that we ourselves receive from God, we can comfort those who are in any affliction. 
5 For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation abounds through Christ. [That is to say, we are consoled by the fact that we know how God has done justice to Christ. We know that God has raised Christ from the dead.] 
6 If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation [since we are afflicted because of the work of God that we are doing to save you]. If we are comforted, it is also for your comfort, since it can help you in your patient endurance of the same sufferings that we endure [that is to say, your knowledge of our comfort is added to your knowledge of the justice done to Christ]. 
7 And our hope is stedfast concerning you, because we know that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so you will also be partakers in the consolation. 
8 For we do not want you to be unaware of our affliction that we have experienced in Asia. Brothers, we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired even of life. 
9 We felt inside ourselves that we had received the sentence of death. Therefore we were no longer having any confidence in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead. 
10 And he has delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will continue to deliver us. We have placed our hope in him, and he will save us. 
11 And you also help us by your prayers for us. For we have done good to many people through the gifts that we have received, so that many people may give thanks for us. 
12 For our boast is this: the testimony of our conscience that we have conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you, with holiness and sincerity before God, not with worldly wisdom, but with the grace of God.
13 For we are not writing to you anything other than what you read and understand. And I am convinced that you will acknowledge it to the very end.
14 Just as you have already acknowledge that we are partly your glory, just as you also will be ours in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
15 In this confidence, I wanted to come to you first, so that you might have a double blessing. 
16 I wanted to come to you on my way to Macedonia, and to return from Macedonia to you, and you would have helped me on my way to Judea.
17 Do you think that I made these plans without really thinking. Or are my plans made under the inspiration of the flesh, so that there is both yes and no in me. 
18 As surely as God is faithful, our message to you has not been yes and no [that is to say, we did not have doubts about the usefulness of what we were doing].
19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ who has been preached among you by us, namely by me, and by Silvanus, and by Timothy, was not yes and no, but in him it was always yes. 
20 For all the promises of God find their yes in him. That is why it is through him that we say Amen to the glory of God. 
21 Now it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and he is the one who has anointed us. 
22 He has put his seal on us, by the fact that he has given us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. 
23 And I call God as my witness on my soul, to declare to you that it is to spare you that I have not yet come to Corinth. 
24 Not that we have dominion over your faith, but we work with you for your joy, so that you may stand firmly in the faith.
