1 Now there was a man called Naaman who was the captain of the army of the king of Syria. Naaman was a great and honorable man for his master, because Yahweh had saved the Syrians by him. And he was also strong and valiant, but he was leper. 
2 And the Syrians had gone out by troops into the land of Israel, and they had taken captive a young girl of the land of Israel, and she was at the service of Naaman's wife. 
3 And she said to her mistress: If my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria, then the prophet could heal him of his leprosy. 
4 And Naaman entered and said to his lord: The young girl of the land of Israel has spoken with such and such words. 
5 And the king of Syria said: Go there now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. So Naaman departed after he had taken with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten spare clothes. 
6 And Naaman brought the letter to the king of Israel, and it was saying the following words: Now when this letter has come to you, you will know that I have sent my servant Naaman to you so that you may heal him of his leprosy. 
7 And when the king of Israel did read the letter, he tore his clothes and said: Am I God who is able to kill and to make alive, so that this man has sent me a request to heal a man of his leprosy. Therefore now consider, I pray you, and understand that he is looking for a quarrel with me. 
8 And when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to say to the king: Why have you torn your clothes. Let him come now to me, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel. 
9 Then Naaman came with his horses and with his chariots, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. 
10 And Elisha sent a messenger to him by saying: Go and wash yourself seven times in the Jordan, and your flesh will be healed, and you will be purified. 
11 But Naaman became angry, and he went away by saying: Behold I had thought that he will surely come out, and stand before me, and call on the name of Yahweh his God, and put his hand over the place where my flesh is defiled, and thus heal the leprosy. 
12 Are Abanah and Pharpar the rivers of Damascus not better than all the waters of Israel. May I not wash myself in them and be purified. So he turned back and departed in displeasure. 
13 But his servants came and spoke to him by saying: My father, if the prophet had asked you to do something difficult, would you not have done it. So it is more interesting to do the easy thing that he has asked for by saying, Wash yourself there and you will be purified. 
14 And then Naaman went down, and he dipped himself seven times in the Jordan according to the word of the man of God. And then his flesh became again like the flesh of a young child, and he was purified. 
15 And then Naaman returned to the man of God, he and all his company. And Naaman came and stood before him, and said: Behold now I know that there is no God in all the earth, except in Israel. Now therefore, I pray you to accept a gift from your servant. 
16 But Elisha said: As Yahweh is alive, the one before whom I stand,I will not accept it [I have acted to export the name of my God to current and future generations, and because the king of Israel has torn his garment]. And Naaman urged him to accept it, but Elisha refused. 
17 Then Naaman said: If not then I pray you to let your servant be given two mules loaded with the dust of this ground where we stand [this ground that is a witness of what we have said to each other here, and I will use it to build an earthen altar at my home to make offerings]. For your servant will no longer offer burnt offerings or sacrifices to any other god, except to Yahweh. 
18 Nevertheless may Yahweh forgive your servant for the following thing. When my master goes into the house of Rimmon to worship there, he will lean on my hand and therefore I will bow myself in the house of Rimmon [who is a false god]. Now I say that when I bow down in the house of Rimmon, I hope that Yahweh will forgive your servant for this thing. 
19 And Elisha said to him, Go in peace. 
20 So Naaman departed from there and traveled about half a day. And it is at this moment that Gehazi the servant of Elisha the man of God arose, and he said to himself: Behold my master has spared this Naaman the Syrian, by not accepting from his hand what he had brought. As Yahweh is alive, I will run after him and take something from him. 
21 So Gehazi ran after Naaman. And when Naaman saw that Gehazi was running after him, he alighted from the chariot to meet Gehazi and said: Is all well. 
22 And Gehazi answered: All is well. My master has sent me by saying: Behold two young men of the children of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] have come now to me from the mount Ephraim. Give for them, I pray you, a talent of silver and two of the spare garments. 
23 And Naaman said: I want you to accept two talents of silver [rather than the only one that you have asked for]. And Naaman urged him, and put two talents of silver in two bags, with two of the spare garments, and gave them to two of his servants to carry them before Gehazi. 
24 And when Gehazi came to the tower, he took the gifts from their hands and hid them in the house. And he sent the men away, and they departed. 
25 Then he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him, Where do you come from, Gehazi. And he answered, Your servant has not gone somewhere. 
26 But Elisha said to him, My spirit was not absent when the man turned from his chariot to meet you. Is it a time to take money, and to receive garments, and olive-yards, and vineyards, and sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants [is it for this reason that I have asked the king to send me this man]. 
27 Now therefore, Naaman's leprosy will cling to you and to your descendants forever. And then Gehazi went out from the presence of Elisha with a leprosy as white as snow.
