1 At that time Hezekiah became sick and was nearly dead. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, Thus says Yahweh: Put your house in order, because you will not live but you will die. 
2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh with the following words. 
3 I beseech you to remember now, O Yahweh, that I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and that I have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept wholeheartedly. 
4 And when Isaiah had not yet reached the middle of the court and was going away, the word of Yahweh came to him with the following words. 
5 Go back and tell Hezekiah the prince of my people, Thus says Yahweh the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer and seen your tears. Behold I will heal you, and in three days you will [be strong enough to] go up to the temple of Yahweh. 
6 And I will add fifteen years to your days, and I will save you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria. For I will defend this city because of myself and because of my servant David. 
7 And Isaiah said, Take a lump of dry figs. And they took it, and crushed it, and put it on the sore of Hezekiah. And Hezekiah recovered. 
8 For Hezekiah had said to Isaiah: What will be the sign that Yahweh will heal me, and that I will go up to the temple of Yahweh on the third day. [Now Hezekiah wants to be reassured that Isaiah is not trying to assuage his feeling so that may die in peace. For it is known that the prophet Elisha had asked the servant of the king of Syria to lie to him that he would recover from his illness while knowing that he was going to die.] 
9 And Isaiah answered: The following thing will be a sign of Yahweh for you, so that you may know that Yahweh will perform what he has spoken. Do you want the shadow to go forward ten steps or go back ten steps. 
10 And Hezekiah answered: It is a small thing for the shadow to go forward ten steps. Therefore let the shadow go back ten steps. 
11 And Isaiah the prophet called to Yahweh, and he caused the shadow [not the sun] to go back ten steps on the steps of Ahaz where it was observed [something made by Ahaz still existed in that place at that time]. 
12 In the same season Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan and king of Babylon sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah. For he had heard how Hezekiah had been sick. 
13 And Hezekiah heard the messengers, and showed them all the valuable things that he owned. He showed them the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house and in all his kingdom that Hezekiah did not show them. 
14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to king Hezekiah and said to him, What have these men said and from where have they come to you. And Hezekiah answered, They have come from a far country, from Babylon. 
15 Then Isaiah said, What have they seen in your house. And Hezekiah answered: They have seen all that is in my house, and there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them. 
16 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah: Hear the word of Yahweh. 
17 Behold the days are coming when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have laid up in store until this day, will be carried to Babylon. Nothing will be left, Yahweh has spoken it. 
18 And of your sons who will proceed from you, namely those whom you will beget, they will be taken away and will be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. 
19 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of Yahweh that you have spoken is good. For Hezekiah thought: Is it not good if I myself enjoy safety and tranquility during the days that I have yet to live. Let each generation take care of its own problems. [Now Hezekiah is not perfect as it is the case of any normal human being, because he is not Christ.] 
20 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his valiant deeds, and how he made the pool and the aqueduct to bring water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.
