1 Then Elisha said, Listen to the word of Yahweh, Thus speaks Yahweh: Tomorrow at this hour in the gate of Samaria, one measure of fine flour will be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel. 
2 Then the officer on whose hand the king leaned replied to the man of God and said: Such a thing cannot happen even if Yahweh makes windows in the heaven to send food to us. And Elisha answered him: You will see it with your eyes but you will not eat of it. 
3 Now there were four lepers at the entrance of the gate [of the city]. And they said one to another: Why should we stay here until we die. 
4 If we say that we will enter the city, then behold the famine is in the city and we will die there. And if we stay here then we will also die. Now therefore let us go in the camp of the Syrians. For if they kill us then we will also die, but if they let us live then we will live. 
5 So they got up in the twilight [before the full night] to go to the camp of the Syrians. And when they arrived at the edge of the camp of the Syrians, behold there was no one there. 
6 For Yahweh had caused the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses in the camp, and a noise of a great army, so that they had said one to another: Behold the king of Israel has hired the kings of the Hittites and the kings [the princes] of the Egyptians to come and fight us. 
7 And they had arisen and fled in the twilight. And they had abandoned their tents, and their horses, and their donkeys, and all the camp as it was, and they had fled to save their lives. 
8 And when these lepers came at the edge of the camp, they went into a tent, and did eat and drink. And they brought out of there silver and gold, and clothes, and they went to hide it. Then they returned and went into another tent, and they brought out of there goods which they hid. 
9 Then they said one to another: What we do is not good, for this day is a day of good news [since all the people are in distress as we were] and we are holding our peace. If we wait until the morning light then the anger of God will reach us. Therefore let us go now to inform the king's household. 
10 So they came and cried out to the guards of the gate of the city, and told them the news by saying: We have gone into the camp of the Syrians and lo, there is no one there, not even the voice of a man. But the horses an the donkeys are tied, and the tents are as they were. 
11 And the guards of the gate shouted, and they transmitted this report inside the king's house. 
12 Therefore the king arose in the night and said to his servants: I will tell you now what the Syrians are doing with us. Now they know that we are hungry, therefore they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the fields by saying, When they come out of the city, we will capture them alive and then we will enter their city. 
13 And one of the king's servants answered and said: Let me take now five of the horses that are still in the city. Behold they are like the whole multitude of Israel who is here. Behold they are like the whole multitude of Israel who is dying here. And we will send men with them to see what is happening. 
14 So they took two chariots with the horses, and the king sent messengers to search the footsteps of the Syrians' army by saying: Go and see. 
15 And they went after the Syrians to the Jordan and behold, the whole road was full of clothes and objects that the Syrians had thrown while hastening. So the messengers returned and told it to the king. 
16 Then the people went out and plundered the camp of the Syrians. And one measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Yahweh. 
17 And the king had appointed the officer on whose hand he leaned for the surveillance of the gate of the city. And this officer was jostled by the crowd movement at the gate, and the people trod on him, and he died according to the word that the man of God had said when the king had come down to him. 
18 For the man of God had then said to the king: Two measures of barley for a shekel, and one measure of fine flour for a shekel, it will happen tomorrow at this hour in the gate of Samaria. 
19 And the officer had responded to the man of God by saying: Such a thing cannot happen even if Yahweh makes windows in the heaven to send food to us. And Elisha had answered him: You will see it with your eyes but you will not eat of it. 
20 And it is indeed what happened to him, for the people trod on him in the gate and he died.
