1 Now in the third year of Hoshea the son of Elah and king of Israel, Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign. 
2 Hezekiah was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Abi the daughter of Zechariah. 
3 And Hezekiah did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that David his father had done. 
4 Hezekiah removed the high places, and broke the pillars, and did cut down the groves, and broke in pieces the serpent of brass that Moses had made. For [some of] the children of Israel had burned incense to it until those days, and it was called Nehushtan. 
5 Hezekiah trusted in Yahweh the God of Israel so much so that there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah who came after him, nor among those who had been before him [the first king of this kingdom of Judah was Rehoboam the son of Solomon the son of David]. 
6 For Hezekiah cling to Yahweh and did not turn away from following him, and Hezekiah kept his commandments which Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
7 And Yahweh was with Hezekiah, and he prospered in all the things that he undertook. And Hezekiah rebelled against the king of Assyria and was no longer his servant. 
8 And Hezekiah defeated the Philistines in their cities as far as Gaza and its borders, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city. 
9 And in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea the son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it. 
10 And they took it after three years, in the sixth year of Hezekiah. It was in the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel that Samaria was taken. 
11 Then the king of Assyria carried Israel away to Assyria, and did put them in Halah and in Habor near the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes. 
12 For they did not obey the voice of Yahweh their God, but they transgressed his covenant. They did not listen and perform all that Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded. 
13 In the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. 
14 Then Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish by saying: I have offended. But depart from me, and I will do whatever you impose on me. And the king of Assyria imposed on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. 
15 And Hezekiah gave all the silver that was found in the house of Yahweh and in the treasures of the king's house. 
16 At the same season Hezekiah took away the gold that he had put [had caused to put] on the doors and doorposts of the temple of Yahweh, and gave it to the king of Assyria. 
17 Afterwards [after some other events], the king of Assyria sent Tartan, and Rab-saris, and Rabshakeh. He sent them with a great army from Lachish to king Hezekiah at Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they had come up, they stood near the aqueduct of the upper pool which is on the way to the fuller's field. 
18 And they called the king [they sent for him], and those who came out to them were Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and steward of the king's household, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph and recorder. 
19 And Rabshakeh said to them, Go and tell Hezekiah: Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria. What is this confidence on which you rely. 
20 You are saying now: I have counsel and strength for the war. But you are deceiving yourself. In whom have you put your trust so that you have rebelled against me. 
21 Lo now, you may trust in the staff of Egypt. But it is a broken reed, and if anyone leans on it then it will pierce his hand and enter it. Thus is Pharaoh king of Egypt for all those who trust in him. 
22 Perhaps you will say to me, We trust in Yahweh our God. But is it not he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has destroyed. And Hezekiah has said to Judah and Jerusalem, You will worship only at this altar in Jerusalem. [Now Rabshakeh did not know all the details of the Jewish law and he thought that Hezekiah has offended his God by acting in this way.] 
23 Now therefore make an agreement with my lord the king of Assyria. And then I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able to set riders on them. 
24 But even after this you will not be able to defeat the smallest captain among the servants of my master. So how can you think that the chariots and horsemen of Egypt will be able to save you. 
25 Is it without the will of Yahweh that I have come up now against this place to destroy it. Know that Yahweh said to me: Go up against this land and destroy it. [Now he was deceived in the same way that Yahweh had sent an angel to deceive the prophets of king Ahab the son of Omri, as it had been revealed by the prophet Micaiah.] 
26 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebna, and Joah, they said [they agreed to say] to Rabshakeh: Talk to your servants in the Syrian language because we understand it. And do not speak with us in the language of the Jews, lest the people who are on the wall hear it. 
27 But Rabshakeh said to them: Has my master sent me with these words only to you and to your master. Has he not sent me to the men who are sitting on the wall to eat their excrement and to drink their urine with you. 
28 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried out with a loud voice in the Jewish language, and said: Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. 
29 Thus speaks the king: Let not Hezekiah deceive you, because he will not be able to save you from my hand.
30 And let not Hezekiah make you trust in Yahweh by saying: Yahweh will surely save us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. 
31 Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus speaks the king of Assyria: Make peace with me, and come out to me. And then each of you will eat of his own vine and of his own fig tree, and everyone will drink the water of his own well. 
32 Until I come to bring you in another land that will be like your own land, in a land of wheat and wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil and of honey. And you will live, and you will not die. So do not listen to Hezekiah, for he has deceived you by saying: Yahweh will save us. 
33 Has any of the gods of the nations saved his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria. 
34 Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad. Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, and of Hena, and of Ivvah. Has any god saved Samaria out of my hand. 
35 Who is the one who saved his land out of my hand among all the gods of the nations, so that you may think that Yahweh will save Jerusalem out of my hand. 
36 But the people held their peace and did not answer him a word. For the king had commanded them by saying: You will not answer him.
37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and steward of the king's household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph and recorder, they came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and reported to him the words of Rabshakeh.
