1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham king of Judah began to reign. 
2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king. He reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and he did not do what was right in the sight of Yahweh his God as David his father had done. 
3 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and he even burned his son [as a sacrifice to false gods] according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had cast out before the children of Israel. 
4 He also offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree. 
5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah king of Israel the son of Remaliah came up against Jerusalem to war. And they besieged Ahaz, but they could not overcome him. 
6 At the same time Rezin king of Syria restored Elath to Syria, and he expelled the Jews from Elath. So the Syrians came to Elath and they have dwelt there to this day. 
7 Then Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser the king of Assyria by saying: I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, because they have come against me. 
8 And Ahaz took the silver and the gold that was found in the house of Yahweh and in the treasures of the king's house, and he sent it to the king of Assyria as a gift. 
9 And the king of Assyria consented to him, and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus and took it, and carried the inhabitants in captivity to Kir, and killed Rezin. 
10 And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and he saw the altar that was at Damascus. And then king Ahaz sent a model of this altar to Urijah the priest, with full details of exact dimensions and materials used. 
11 Then the priest Uriah built an altar according to all the information that king Ahaz had sent from Damascus. And Urijah the priest did so before king Ahaz came back from Damascus. 
12 And when the king returned from Damascus, the king saw the altar. And the king approached it, and made offerings on it [he caused to make the offerings]. 
13 And he burned his burnt offering on it, and his meal offering, and he poured his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings besides the altar.
14 And he set it by the altar of brass that was before Yahweh, and brought it near to the house, between the altar of Yahweh and the house, and set it on the north side of the altar of Yahweh. 
15 And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest by saying: Use the great altar [the new magnificent altar] to burn the morning burnt offerings [with its associated meal offering], and the evening meal offerings [with its associated burnt offering], and the king's burnt offerings and his meal offerings, and the burnt offerings of all the people of the land, and their meal offerings, and their drink offerings. And you will pour at its sides all the blood of the burnt offerings and all the blood of the sacrifices [so use the new altar for everything that is commanded by the law of Moses]. And I will use the altar of brass [made by Solomon] to inquire of God [I will pray there]. 
16 And Urijah the priest did according to all that king Ahaz had commanded. 
17 And king Ahaz did cut off the borders of the bases and removed the basins from them. And he took down the sea [the big container of brass made by Solomon for the washing of the bodies of priests] from the oxen of brass that stood under it, and did put the container on a pavement of stone. 
18 And because of the king of Assyria [who gave his advice to Ahaz to beautify this place of worship], Ahaz removed the covered place that they had made for the sabbath meetings in [the zone of] the temple of Yahweh, and also the external entrance that they had made for the king. 
19 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
