1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hephzibah. 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had cast out before the children of Israel. 
3 For he turned back [in the matter of bringing the people near to Yahweh] and rebuilt the high places that Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and he did set up altars for Baal and made a grove as Ahab king of Israel had done, and he worshiped all the armies of the heaven and served them. 
4 He also built altars to honor false gods in the house of Yahweh, although this temple was the place of which Yahweh had said: I will put my name in Jerusalem. 
5 So he built altars for all the armies of the heaven in the two courtyards of the house of Yahweh. 
6 And he burned his sons for an offering to his false gods, and utilized divination and sorcery, and appointed the soothsayers who communicate with the dead. He did more and more evil in the sight of Yahweh to anger him. 
7 And he made a graven image of the grove that he had made, and did put it in the temple of which Yahweh had said to David and to his son Solomon: I will put my name forever in this house of Jerusalem which is the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. 
8 And I will no more cause the feet of Israel to wander out of the land that I gave to their fathers, if only they take care to do all that I have commanded them according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them. 
9 But they did not obey, and Manasseh led them out of the way in order to do more wickedly than the nations whom Yahweh destroyed before the children of Israel. 
10 Therefore Yahweh spoke by his servants the prophets with the following words. 
11 Seeing that Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations, and has done more wickedly than all that the Amorites who were before him had done, and has also caused Judah to sin with his idols. 
12 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Behold I will bring such an evil on Jerusalem and Judah that when anyone hears of it then his two ears will tingle. 
13 I will stretch out the measuring line of Samaria and the plumb line of the house of Ahab [the son of Omri king of Israel] over Jerusalem. And I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipes a dish, when he wipes and turns it upside down. 
14 And I will forsake the remnant of my inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies. And they will become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies. 
15 Because they have done evil in my sight, and because they have repeatedly provoked me to make me angry since the day when their fathers came out of Egypt until this day. 
16 Moreover Manasseh also shed innocent blood very much [he caused to kill many people who were innocent considering what Manasseh might have known about them] and filled Jerusalem with it from one end to the other, besides his sins by which he caused Judah to sin with the things that were evil in sight of Yahweh [even if those things did not directly offend other humans who were not under the sinner's responsibility]. 
17 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sins by which he sin, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
18 And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son reigned in his stead. 
19 Amon was twenty two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah. 
20 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as Manasseh his father had done. 
21 For he walked in all the way in which his father had walked. He served the idols that his father had served, and he bowed down to them. 
22 And he forsook Yahweh the God of his fathers, for he did not walk in the way of Yahweh. 
23 And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and killed the king in his own house. 
24 And the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against king Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead. 
25 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
26 And they buried him in his sepulcher in the garden of Uzza, and Josiah his son reigned in his stead.
