1 There was seventy sons [the spiritual sons among whom were the male descendant] of Ahab in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters and sent them to the rulers of Jezreel in Samaria, and to the elders, and to the servants of the kingdom who educated the children of Ahab. And here is what was written [in the first letter]. 
2 Now this letter has come to you, while you have with you the sons of your master, and also the chariots and the horses, and a strong city and weapons. 
3 Consider therefore which of the sons of your master is the best and suitable, and set him on the throne of his father, and fight for your master's house. 
4 But they were very afraid, and they said: Behold two kings have not been able to resist him. How could we resist. 
5 And the steward of the household of Ahab, and the governor of the city, and the elders, and those who educated children of Ahab, they sent to Jehu by saying: We are your servants, and we will do all that you will tell us. We will not establish anyone here to be king, and you can do what seems good to you. 
6 Then Jehu sent another letter to them by saying: If you are mine and if you obey my voice, then take the heads of these men who are the sons of your master, and come to me tomorrow at this hour in Jezreel. Now the seventy sons of the king were with the great men of the city who educated them. 
7 And when the letter came to them, they took the king's sons and killed the seventy persons. Then they put their heads in baskets, and sent them to Jehu in Jezreel. 
8 Then a messenger came to inform Jehu by saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons. And Jehu said: Put them in two heaps at the entrance to of the gate [and let them stay there] until morning. 
9 And Jehu went out in the morning, and he stood and said to all the people: How can you be more blameless than me. Behold I have conspired against my master and I killed him, but who has killed all these persons. 
10 But know now that nothing of the word of Yahweh that has fallen on the earth will remain without any effect, what Yahweh has spoken concerning the house of Ahab. For Yahweh has done [through our hands, my hand and your hand] what he had declared by his servant Elijah. 
11 So Jehu smote all those who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all those whom he had made great, and his familiar friends, and his priests, until there was not one left of Ahab. 
12 Then Jehu got up and departed, and went to Samaria. And when he was in the way near a house where the shepherds did shear. 
13 Then Jehu found the brothers [kinsmen] of Ahaziah king of Judah and he said: Who are you. And they answered: We are the brothers of Ahaziah, and we descend to greet the children of the king and the children of the queen. 
14 And Jehu said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and killed them at the well near the house where the sheep are sheared. They were forty two men, and Jehu did not left any of them alive. 
15 And when Jehu had departed from there, he found Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him. And Jehu greeted him and said to him, Is your heart sincere toward me as my heart is toward you. And Jehonadab answered, Yes. And Jehu said, if so then give me your hand. And Jehonadab gave his hand to Jehu, and Jehu took him into the chariot. 
16 And he said, Come with me and you will see the zeal that I have for Yahweh. So Jehonadab rode in the chariot of Jehu. 
17 And Jehu arrived in Samaria and he smote all those who remained of Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed them entirely according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke to Elijah. 
18 Then Jehu assembled all the people, and said to them: Ahab served Baal a little, but Jehu will serve him much more. 
19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants and all his priests, and let none be wanting. For I have a great sacrifice for Baal, therefore whoever is missing will not live. But Jehu was acting cunningly in order to destroy the servants of Baal. 
20 And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it. 
21 So Jehu sent messengers throughout all Israel, and all the servants of Baal came, and there was none of them who had not come. And they entered the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other. 
22 Then Jehu said to the one who kept the vestry, Bring out vestments for all the servants of Baal. And the man brought out vestments for them. 
23 Then Jehu and Jehonadab the son of Rechab went into the house of Baal, and Jehu said to the servants of Baal: Search diligently and make sure that there is no servant of Yahweh here with you, but only the servants of Baal. 
24 And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings, Jehu appointed eighty men outside by saying: Whoever will let escape one of the men whom I am giving into your hands, his life will answer for the life of the one who will have escaped. 
25 And when they had finished offering the burnt offerings [which Jehu caused to offer], then Jehu said to the guards and the captains: Go in and kill them, and let not one of them come out. So they smote the servants of Baal with the edge of the sword. And the guards and the captains threw the corpses outside, and they went in [another room called] the city of the house of Baal. 
26 And they brought out the pillars of the house of Baal, and burned them. 
27 And they destroyed the pillars of Baal, and broke down the house of Baal, and made it into a lump which remains to this day. 
28 Jehu thus destroyed Baal from among Israel. 
29 But Jehu did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin concerning the abandonment of the tribe of Levi, and he did not abandon the golden calves that were in Bethel and in Dan [which were considered by the people of the kingdom of Israel, by those who did not follow Yahweh with all their hearts, as an alternative to the house of Yahweh which was in the kingdom of Judah in order to perform the rituals required by Moses. And Jeroboam the first king of the kingdom of Israel created this alternative during the days of the first king of the kingdom of Judah who was Rehoboam the son of Solomon the son of David. For Jeroboam did not have sufficient confidence in Yahweh to create no alternative or to create an alternative compatible with the tabernacle of Moses which also gave a place to members of the tribe of Levi who are without inheritance among the children of Israel. For Jeroboam made two calves of gold and appointed them as the representatives of God while Solomon made two great cherubim in the most holy place of the house that he built, but Solomon placed underneath the ark of the covenant which contained only the two tablets of stone on which were written the ten commandments of Yahweh]. 
30 And Yahweh said to Jehu [by a prophet]: Because you have diligently performed what is right in my eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all the things that were in my heart, therefore your sons to the fourth generation will sit on the throne of Israel. 
31 But Jehu did not take care to walk in the law of Yahweh the God of Israel with all his heart. For he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam by which Jeroboam had caused Israel to sin. 
32 In those days Yahweh began to cut off the territory of Israel, and Hazael defeated them on all the border of Israel. 
33 From the Jordan eastward namely in all the land of Gilead, the land of the Gadites and of the Reubenites and of the Manassites, from Aroer which is near the river Arnon to Gilead and Bashan. 
34 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his valiant deeds, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
35 And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead. 
36 And Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty eight years.
