1 Then Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] and said to him: Gird up now your waist, and take this vial of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead. 
2 And when you have come there, you will look for Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi. And you will go and make him arise from among his brothers, and you will lead him to an inner room. 
3 Then you will take the vial of oil and pour it on his head, and you will say, Thus speaks Yahweh: I have anointed you king over Israel. Then you will open the door, and you will flee without stopping. 
4 So the young man the servant of the prophet went to Ramoth-gilead. 
5 And when he arrived there, behold the captains of the army were sitting. And he says: I have a message for you, O captain. And Jehu says, to whom among all of us. And he replied: To you, O captain. 
6 And Jehu got up and went into the house, and the young man poured the oil on his head and said to him: Thus speaks Yahweh the God of Israel, I have anointed you king over the people of Yahweh, over Israel. 
7 And you will smite the house of your [previous] master Ahab, so that I may take revenge on Jezebel for the blood of my servants the prophets and for the blood of all the servants of Yahweh. 
8 For the whole house of Ahab will be destroyed. Therefore I will cut off from Ahab [from his spiritual children] every person who pees against the wall [every male], whether slave or free in Israel. 
9 And I will make the house of Ahab similar to the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and similar to the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah. 
10 And dogs will eat Jezebel in the field of Jezreel, and there will be no one to bury her. Then the servant of the prophet opened the door and fled. 
11 Then Jehu came out to join the servants of his lord. And one said to him: Is everything going well. Why has this mad man come to you. And Jehu said to them: You know the man and how he behaves strangely. 
12 And they replied: It is not true, tell us now the facts. And Jehu said: He spoke to me in such and such a way by saying, Thus speaks Yahweh, I have anointed you king over Israel. 
13 Then they hastened and took every man his garment, and put it on the steps of the stair before Jehu. And they sounded the trumpet and said: Jehu is king. 
14 Thus has Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram [Jehoram]. Now Joram and all Israel had defended Ramoth-gilead against Hazael king of Syria. 
15 And king Joram had returned in Jezreel to be healed of the wounds that the Syrians had given him when he was fighting against Hazael king of Syria. And Jehu said to the men who were declaring him king: If it is what you want, then let no one depart from this city to go to tell it in Jizreel. 
16 And Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, because Joram was there to be healed. And Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to see Joram. 
17 And the sentry who was standing in the tower at Jezreel saw the company of Jehu while they were coming and he said, I see a company. And Jehoram said, Take a horseman and send him to meet them to ask: Are you coming in peace. 
18 So a man rode a horse and went to meet Jehu by saying, Thus speaks the king: Are you coming in peace. And Jehu replied, What have you to do with peace. Go now behind me. And the sentry told it by saying: The messenger went to them, but he does not come back. 
19 Then Jehoram sent a second messenger on a horse, and the messenger came to them and said: Thus speaks the king, Are you coming in peace. And Jehu replied: What have you to do with peace. Go now behind me. 
20 And the sentry told it by saying: This messenger also went to them, but he does not come back. And there is a man of the company who drives his chariot in the manner of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives foolishly. 
21 Then Jehoram said, Make ready. And they make ready his chariot. And Jehoram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out each in his chariot to meet Jehu, and they met him in the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
22 And when Jehoram saw Jehu, he said: Are you coming in peace, Jehu. And Jehu answered: There is no peace as long as the whoredoms of your mother Jezebel persist, and the multitude of her witchcrafts. 
23 Then Jehoram turned his hand and fled, and he said to Ahaziah: There is treachery, O Ahaziah. 
24 But Jehu took a bow in his hand and smote Jehoram between the shoulders, and the arrow went out through his heart, and Jehoram fell down in his chariot. 
25 Then Jehu said to his officer Bidkar: Take Jehoram and throw him in the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. For I remember that when I and you rode together as servants of Ahab his father, Yahweh had laid the following burden on him [It was said by a prophet]. 
26 Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons, says Yahweh. And I will repay you in this field, says Yahweh. Now therefore, take Jehoram [his son who reigns in his stead] and throw him in that field according to the word of Yahweh. 
27 And when Ahaziah king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu pursued him and said, Smite him also in the chariot. And they smote him at the ascent to Gur, which is near Ibleam. And Ahaziah fled to Megiddo, and he died there. 
28 And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulcher with his fathers in the city of David. 
29 Ahaziah became king of Judah in the eleventh year of Joram [Jehoram] the son of Ahab. 
30 And when Jehu came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it. And she painted her eyes, and adorned her head, and looked out at a window. 
31 And while Jehu was entering the gate of the city, Jezebel said: Do you have peace, you the spiritual son of Zimri the murderer of his master. 
32 And Jehu lifted up his eyes to the window and said: Who is on my side, who. And then two or three of her eunuchs looked at him. 
33 And Jehu said, Throw her down. And they threw her down, and her blood gushed on the wall and on the horses, and Jehu trampled her. 
34 And Jehu went inside and ate and drank, and he said: Go and see this cursed woman to bury her, for she is a king's daughter. 
35 And they went to bury her, but they found nothing of her except the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands. 
36 Therefore they came back and told it to Jehu, and he answered: It is the word that Yahweh had spoken by his servant Elijah the Tishbite when he said, Dogs will eat the flesh of Jezebel in the field of Jezreel. 
37 And the carcass of Jezebel will be as dung on the ground in the field of Jezreel, so that no one will be able to say: This is Jezebel.
