1 And the time came when Yahweh wanted to take up Elijah into the heaven by a whirlwind. And Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. 
2 Then Elijah said to Elisha: Stay here, I pray you, because Yahweh told me to go to Bethel. But Elisha replied: As Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, I will not leave you [for Eli did not say that Yahweh has commanded him to go there alone]. So they went down to Bethel. 
3 And the children of the prophets [disciples who study to become prophets - under the guidance of a leader in those days] who were at Bethel came to Elisha and said to him, Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master above your head today. And Elisha replied: I know it, hold your peace. 
4 Then Elijah said to him: Stay here Elisha, I pray you, because Yahweh told me to go to Jericho. But Elisha replied: As Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, I will not leave you. So they came to Jericho. 
5 And the children of the prophets who were at Jericho came to Elisha and said to him, Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master above your head today. And Elisha replied: I know it, hold your peace. 
6 And then Elijah said to Elisha: Stay here, I pray you, because Yahweh told me to go the Jordan. But Elisha replied: As Yahweh is alive and as your soul is alive, I will not leave you. So they both went on their way together. 
7 And fifty men of the disciples of the prophets came and stood far away from Elijah and Elisha, while they both stood near the Jordan [and had not crossed it]. 
8 Then Elijah took his coat, and wrapped it together, and smote the waters. And the waters separated to the right and left, and they both went over on dry ground. 
9 And when they had passed, Elijah said to Elisha: Ask what you want me to do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha replied: I pray you, let the double of your spirit be on me. 
10 And Elijah said: You have asked for a difficult thing. Nevertheless if you see me while I am taken from you then you will receive what you have asked for. Otherwise it will not happen. 
11 And while they continued walking and talking, behold a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated Elijah and Elisha. And Elijah went up thus by a whirlwind into the heaven.
12 And Elisha saw it, and he shouted: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen. And Elisha no longer saw Elijah. And Elisha took his own clothes, and he tore them in two pieces. 
13 And he took also the coat of Elijah that had fallen from him, and he went back and stood at the edge of the Jordan. 
14 And then he took the coat of Elijah that had fallen from him, and he smote the waters and said, Where is Yahweh the God of Elijah. So he also smote the waters and they separated to the right and left, and Elisha went over. 
15 And when the children of the prophets who were at Jericho saw Elisha after he had crossed the Jordan alone, they said, The spirit of Elijah is now on Elisha. And they came to meet Elisha, and they bowed themselves to the ground before him. 
16 And they said to him: Behold now, there are fifty strong men among your servants. We pray you to let them go to seek your master, for maybe the spirit of Yahweh has taken him up and has thrown him either on some mountain or in some valley. But Elisha replied: Do not send them. 
17 Nevertheless they urged him until he was ashamed. Therefore he said, Send them. So they sent fifty men who searched for Elijah three days but did not find him. 
18 And when they had come back to Elisha who had stayed at Jericho, he said: Did I not say to you, Do not go. 
19 And the men of the city said to Elisha: Behold we pray you, the situation of this city is pleasant as my lord sees it, but the water is bad and therefore the ground is infertile. 
20 Then Elisha said, Bring me a new cruse and put salt in it. And they brought it to him. 
21 And he went to the spring of the waters, and he threw salt there and said, Thus says Yahweh: I have purified this water. There will no longer come from it neither death nor infertility. 
22 So the waters were purified to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke. 
23 And Elisha went up from there to Bethel. And as he was going up by the way, little children came out of the city and mocked him. And they said to Elisha: Go away, you bald head, go away you bald head. 
24 And he turned back and looked at them, and he cursed them in the name of Yahweh. Then two bears came out of the forest and tore to pieces forty two of these children. 
25 And he went from there to the mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.
