1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign over Israel in Samaria. And Hoshea reigned nine years. 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, but not like the kings of Israel who were before him. 
3 And Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against him, and Hoshea became his servant and paid him a tribute. 
4 And the king of Assyria discovered a treason in Hoshea. For Hoshea had sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and had not brought a tribute to the king of Assyria as he had previously done every year. Therefore the king of Assyria bonded him and locked him in prison. 
5 Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and went against Samaria, and besieged it three years. 
6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria took Samaria and carried Israel away to Assyria, and did put them in Halah, and in Habor near the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes. 
7 This happened because the children of Israel had sinned against Yahweh their God who brought them out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and because they had feared other gods. 
8 And they had walked in the way of the nations whom Yahweh had cast out before the children of Israel, and they had followed the sins of the kings of Israel whom they had agreed to establish over themselves. 
9 And the children of Israel had done secretly [according to their point of view] the things that were not good against Yahweh their God [the spirit]. They had built high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city. 
10 And they had made pillars and groves on every high hill and under every green tree. 
11 And they had burned incense in all those high places, as did the nations whom Yahweh had carried away before them. And they had done wicked things there, by which they had provoked the anger of Yahweh. 
12 They served idols [false gods] about which Yahweh had said to them: You will not do such a thing. 
13 And nevertheless Yahweh had warned Israel and Judah through all the prophets and through all the seers by saying: Return from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes according to all the law that I commanded your fathers and that I sent to you [and to them] by my servants the prophets. 
14 But they did not want to obey, and they hardened their necks like their fathers who had not believed in Yahweh their God. 
15 And they rejected his statutes and his covenant which he had made with their fathers, and the testimonies of how he had acted towards them [from generation to generation]. And they went after worthless things and thus became worthless, and they imitated the nations who were around them and concerning whom Yahweh had commanded them that they should not imitate them. 
16 And they forsook all the commandments of Yahweh their God, and made for themselves two molten images, namely two calves, and also a grove, and they worshiped all the armies of the heaven, and they served Baal. 
17 And they caused their sons and their daughters to be burned with fire, and they used divination and enchantments, and they sold themselves [by letting themselves be influenced by others] to do what was evil in the sight of Yahweh and thus provoked him to anger. 
18 Therefore Yahweh was very angry with Israel, and he removed them from his sight [the place where he had put them to carry out his particular commandments]. And none was left but the tribe of Judah only. 
19 And also Judah did not keep the commandments of Yahweh their God, but they walked in the same way as Israel. 
20 And Yahweh rejected all the seed of Israel [the inheritance of the kingdom of the ten tribes]. He afflicted them, and delivered them into the hands of plunderers until he had cast them out of his sight. 
21 For Israel had separated themselves from the house of David, and they had made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. And Jeroboam had turned Israel away from the way of Yahweh, and had caused them to sin by a great sin. 
22 For the children of Israel had walked in all the sins that Jeroboam had done, and they did not turn away from those sins. 
23 Until Yahweh sent away Israel out of his sight [the place where he had put them to carry out his particular commandments], as he had said by all his servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away captive out of their land to Assyria where they have dwelt to this day. 
24 And the king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Avva, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel. And they took possession of Samaria, and dwelt in its cities. 
25 And when they began to dwell there, they feared not Yahweh [not the commandments of Yahweh which distinguishes the tribe of Levi and proclaims particular feasts and particular commandments, but rather the spirit of Yahweh which asks not to attach oneself to useless behavior and not to create false gods]. Therefore Yahweh sent lions among them to kill some of them. 
26 Therefore they spoke to the king of Assyria by saying: The nations that you carried and placed in the cities of Samaria do not know how to serve the god of the land. And behold, he has sent lions among them to kill them because they do not know how to serve the god of the land. 
27 Then the king of Assyria commanded by saying: Bring there one of the priests whom you had carried from there, and let him go and dwell there in order to teach them how to serve the god of the land. 
28 So one of the priests whom they had carried from Samaria came and dwell in Bethel, and he taught them how they should fear Yahweh [according to what this priest could have known of Yahweh, that is to say the commandments that Moses gave to the people and which require the creation of priests who will have the job of accomplishing the different rituals - but it is obvious that there was no need to practice the commandments such as Passover which is a feast to remember the day that Yahweh brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt where they were detained as slaves]. 
29 Nevertheless each of those nations made their own gods in the cities where they were dwelling, and put them in the houses of the high places that the people of Samaria had made. 
30 For the people of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, and the people of Cuth made Nergal, and the people of Hamath made Ashima. 
31 And the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burned their children in the fire to honor Adrammelech and Anammelech the gods of Sepharvaim. 
32 And they also feared Yahweh, for they themselves chose some of them to be the priests of the high places whose job was to practice in the houses of the high places the likeness of the commandments of Yahweh which had been taught them. [Normally they should have been taught only the ten commandments which constitute the first and true covenant between Yahweh and his people, and which were the only contents of the ark of the covenant. But no one is perfect except Jesus of Nazareth, and therefore they were taught more than that by the priest of Yahweh who had been sent to them.] 
33 So they feared Yahweh [according to their understanding of this God who had explicitly authorized foreigners to attach themselves to his people and to practice the same commandments as his people], but at the same time they also served their own gods according to the customs of the nations from which they had been carried to dwell in Samaria. 
34 And they have acted in this way from that time until this day. They do not really fear Yahweh, for they do not perform all the statutes and the ordinances of the people of Israel [from among all those that they can reasonably perform, for there is no need for them to separate into paternal tribes and to divide the land according to this separation]. They do not perform the law and the commandments that Yahweh commanded the children of Jacob whom he called Israel [Yahweh had given the name Israel to his servant Jacob to whom he transmitted the inheritance of Abraham, that is to say all the promises made to his grandfather Abraham to whom Yahweh had said: Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth will be blessed in him. Because I have chosen him, so that he may command his children and his house after him to keep the way of Yahweh by practicing righteousness and justice. And thus Yahweh will fulfill in favor of Abraham the promises which he made to him]. 
35 For Yahweh had made a covenant with the children of Jacob, and he had commanded them by saying: You will not fear any other god, nor bow down to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them. 
36 But you will fear Yahweh who brought you out of the land of Egypt with a great power and with an outstretched arm. You will fear him, and worship him, and sacrifice to him. 
37 You will diligently keep the statutes, and the ordinances, and the law, and the commandments that he wrote for you. You will do them continually, and you will not fear other gods. 
38 You will not forget the covenant that I have made with you, and you will not fear other gods. 
39 For you will fear Yahweh your God, and he will save you out of the hand of all your enemies. 
40 But these peoples who were brought into the land did not obey [the word of Yahweh that said to fear no other god], for they also continued their former customs. 
41 So these nations feared Yahweh, but they did not practice all his commandments [among all those that they could have reasonably performed] because they also served their idols. And their children and their children's children have behaved likewise. As their fathers did, they have done thus to this day.
