1 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against Jehoiakim, and Jehoiakim served him three years. Then Jehoiakim rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar. 
2 And Yahweh sent against Jehoiakim troops of the Chaldeans, and troops of the Syrians, and troops of the Moabites, and troops of the Ammonites. Yahweh sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Yahweh that he had spoken by his servants the prophets. 
3 Surely it was Yahweh who commanded this thing against Judah in order to put them out of his sight, because of all the sins of Manasseh according to all that he had done. [Yahweh had commanded the flood at the time of Noah in order to eradicate all the works of sinful peoples] 
4 And because of the innocent blood that Manasseh had shed [he had caused to shed], for Manasseh had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood [those who killed them did not do it for the right reasons]. Therefore Yahweh did not want to forgive. 
5 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah.
6 And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead. 
7 And the king of Egypt came no more out of his land, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to the king of Egypt, from the river of Egypt to the river Euphrates. 
8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 
9 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father had done. 
10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged. 
11 So Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and his servants besieged it. 
12 Then Jehoiachin king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his eunuchs. So the king of Babylon took him captive in the eighth year of his reign [namely the reign of Nebuchadnezzar]. 
13 And the king of Babylon carried from there all the treasures of the house of Yahweh and the treasures of the king's house. 
14 And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all the strong soldiers, ten thousand captives, with all the skilled workers and the craftsmen. None remained in the land except the poor people. 
15 And he brought Jehoiachin to Babylon. And he carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon the mother of the king, and the wives of the king, and his eunuchs, and the great men of the land. 
16 And all the soldiers who were seven thousand men, and the carpenters and the smiths who were one thousand, and all those who were strong and fit for war. The king of Babylon brought them captive to Babylon. 
17 And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah the father's half brother of Jehoiachin king in the stead of Jehoiachin, and changed his name to Zedekiah. 
18 Zedekiah was twenty one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.  
19 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that Jehoiakim had done. 
20 And the anger of Yahweh was against Jerusalem and Judah to cast them out of his sight. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
