1 Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah king of Judah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed the entire royal seed. 
2 But Jehosheba the daughter of king Joram [namely Jehoram the previous king of Judah], the sister of Ahaziah [through another mother], she took away Joash the son of Ahaziah from among the king's sons who were to be killed. She took both him and his nurse, and put them in a bedroom, and they hid him from Athaliah to save his life.
3 And Joash and his nurse hid themselves in the house of Yahweh for six years [In this house built by Solomon, there are multiple rooms in addition to the holy place and the most holy place], while Athaliah was reigning in the land of Judah. 
4 And in the seventh year, Jehoiada sent for the captains over hundreds of the Carites and of the guards, and caused them to come to him into the house of Yahweh. And Jehoiada made a covenant with them, and took an oath of them in the house of Yahweh, and then he showed them the king's son. 
5 And he commanded them by saying: This is what you will do. A third part of those among you who usually come to serve on the day of the sabbath will keep watch on the king's house. 
6 And another third part will be at the gate of Sur, and another third part at the gate behind the guards. And thus you will keep watch on all the sides of the house [of Yahweh]. 
7 And your two companies who do not usually come to serve on the day of the sabbath will stay with the king in the house of Yahweh. 
8 And you will surround the king all around, every man with his weapons in his hand, and you will kill anyone who tries to get too close to you. And you will stay with the king wherever he goes. 
9 And the captains of the hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each of them took his men, those who served on the sabbath and those who do not served on the sabbath, and they went to Jehoiada the priest. 
10 And the priest gave to the captains of hundreds the spears and the shields that had belonged to king David and which were in the house of Yahweh. 
11 And the guards [appointed to stay with the king] stood all around the [place that they reserved for] the king, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the right side of the house of Yahweh to the left side, near the altar and near the house. 
12 Then Jehoiada brought out the king's son, and did put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony. And they made him king, for they anointed him and clapped their hands and said: God save the king. 
13 And when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running toward the place of the event, she came to the people at the house of Yahweh. 
14 And she looked and behold, the king was standing near a pillar, as it was the manner, and the captains and the trumpeters was near the king, and all the people of the land were rejoicing, and they were sounding trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and shouted: Treason, treason. 
15 And Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds who were over the assembly: Take Athaliah outside this zone, and kill with the sword whoever follows her. For the priest had said: Let her not be killed in the house of Yahweh. 
16 Then they did put hands on her, and she went by the way of the entrance of the horses of the king's house, and she was killed there. 
17 And Jehoiada made a covenant between Yahweh and the king and the people, to declare that they should be the people of Yahweh. And likewise between the king and the people. 
18 Then all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and they demolished it, and they destroyed its altars and its images courageously, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal in front of the place of the altars. And Jehoiada the priest appointed guards over the house of Yahweh. 
19 Then he took the captains over hundreds, and the Carites, and the guards, and all the people of the land. And they brought the king from the house of Yahweh, and they came to the king's house by the way of the gate of the guards, and Joash sat on the throne of the kings. 
20 And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. For they had killed Athaliah with the sword near the king's house. 
21 And Jehoash [Joash] was seven years old when he became king.
