1 In the fifteenth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah [also called Uzziah] the son of Amaziah king of Judah began reign.
2 He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah and she was from Jerusalem. 
3 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 
4 But the high places did not disappear, for the people still offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places. 
5 And Yahweh smote the king [during his reign] and he became a leper, and he was a leper until the day of his death, and he dwelt in a separate house for this reason. Therefore Jotham the son of the king was over the king’s house at that time, and was judging the people of the land. 
6 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
7 And Azariah slept with her fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Jotham his son reigned in his stead. 
8 In the thirty eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in Samaria. And Zechariah reigned six months. 
9 And Zechariah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as his fathers had done. For he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
10 And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against Zechariah, and smote him in the sight of the people, and killed him. And Shallum reigned in his stead. 
11 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Zechariah, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
12 Thus was accomplished what Yahweh had declared to Jehu by saying: Your sons to the fourth generation will sit on the throne of Israel. 
13 And Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty ninth year of Uzziah [Azariah] king of Judah. He reigned for a month in Samaria. 
14 For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and killed him, and reigned in his stead. 
15 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Shallum, and the conspiracy that he made, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
16 Then Menahem destroyed Tiphsah and all those who were there, and its borders from Tirzah. For they refused to open their gate to him, therefore he smote it and did split the belly of all their pregnant women. 
17 In the thirty ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel. And Menahem reigned ten years in Samaria. 
18 And Menahem did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, during all his life he did not turn away from sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
19 Then Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, and Menahem gave Pul one thousand talents of silver so that Pul might help him to strengthen the kingdom in his hands. 
20 And Menahem got this money of the people of Israel by taking fifty shekels of silver from all those who had wealth in order to give it to the king of Assyria. And then the king of Assyria left and did not stay in the land of Israel. 
21 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
22 And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead. 
23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria. And Pekahiah reigned two years. 
24 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, for he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
25 And Pekah the son of Remaliah who was the captain of the army of Pekahiah conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria in the palace of the king's house. Pekah conspired with Argob and Arieh, and with fifty men of the Gileadites. So Pekah killed Pekahiah and reigned in his stead. 
26 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
27 In the fifty second year of Azariah [Uzziah] king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria. And Pekah reigned twenty nine years. 
28 And Pekah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, for he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin. 
29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and took Ijon, and Abel-beth-maacah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, and all the land of Naphtali, and he carried the inhabitants captive to Assyria. 
30 And Hoshea the son of Elah conspired against Pekah the son of Remaliah and smote him, and killed him, and reigned in his stead in the twelfth year of Ahaz the son of Jotham the son of Uzziah. 
31 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
32 In the second month of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Jotham the son of Uzziah [Azariah] king of Judah began to reign [alone]. 
33 Jotham was twenty five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned [alone] sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok. 
34 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh. He did according to all that Uzziah his father had done. 
35 However the high places have not been removed, for the people still offered sacrifices and burned incense in the high places. But Jotham built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh.
36 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. 
37 In those days Yahweh began to send Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah. 
38 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.
