1 Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the twentieth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned twelve years. [Consequently Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat had begun to reign over Judah in Jerusalem while his father was still alive, shortly after Ahaziah the brother of his own successor and son of Ahab had become king of Israel. And this is not unintelligible because Solomon also had become king while David his father was still alive] 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, but not like his father and his mother. For he removed the pillar of Baal that his father had made. 
3 Nevertheless he walked in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin, for he did not turn away from them. 
4 Now Mesha the king of Moab had many sheep. And he gave one hundred thousand lambs and one hundred thousand rams with their wool to the king of Israel. 
5 But the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel when Ahab was dead. 
6 Therefore king Jehoram went out of Samaria at that time, and numbered all [the soldiers of] Israel. 
7 And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat king of Judah by saying: The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to battle against Moab. And Jehoshaphat said: I will go up. For I am like you are, and my people is like your people, and my horses are like your horses. 
8 Then Jehoshaphat said, By which way will we go up. And Jehoram answered, By the way of the wilderness of Edom. 
9 So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom [the chief ruler of Edom]. And after they had marched seven days, they had no water for the army nor for the cattle that followed them. 
10 Therefore the king of Israel said: Alas, Yahweh has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab. 
11 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Yahweh by whom we may inquire of Yahweh. And one of the servants of the king of Israel answered and said, There is Elisha the son of Shaphat who used to pour water on the hands of Elijah. 
12 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of Yahweh is with him. Therefore the king of Israel went down with Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom [the chief ruler of Edom] to Elisha. 
13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel: What have I to do with you. Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother. And the king of Israel said to him: No, because Yahweh has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab. 
14 Then Elisha said: As Yahweh is alive, the one before whom I stand, I would not have considered you nor looked at you if Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were not with you. 
15 And now bring me a harpist. And the hand of Yahweh came on Elisha while the harpist was playing. 
16 And Elisha said, Thus says Yahweh: Make this valley full of ditches. 
17 For thus says Yahweh: You will neither see wind nor rain, and nevertheless the valley will be filled with water. And you will drink of it, you and your cattle and your beasts. 
18 But this is a small thing in the sight of Yahweh, for he will also deliver Moab into your hand. 
19 And you will smite every fortified city and every good city, and you will cut down every good tree, and you will stop all water wells, and you will mar every good field with stones. 
20 And in the morning at the time of the morning offering, behold there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water. 
21 And the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them. So they assembled all those among them who were able to put an armor, and they stood on their border. 
22 And they got up early in the morning. And when the rising sun was shining on the water, the Moabites saw the waters before them as red as blood. 
23 And they said: This is blood. It has probably happened that the kings [and their men] have fought against each other. Now therefore, Moabites, go to plunder. 
24 And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites arose and smote the Moabites. And the Moabites fled before them, but the Israelites entered their land and smote the Moabites. 
25 And the Israelites destroyed the cities. And every man threw his stone on each good piece of land to fill it with stones, and they stopped all water wells, and did cut down all the good trees. It was only in Kir-hareseth that they had not moved the stones, but the slingers [with their slingshots] came near and smote it. 
26 And when the king of Moab saw that he was painfully defeated in the battle, he took with him seven hundred men who drew the sword to break through to the king of Edom [the chief ruler of Edom]. But they could not. 
27 Therefore he took his eldest son who should have reigned in his stead, and offered him as a burnt offering on the wall. And then a strong feeling of disgust seized the men of Israel [because of what the king of Moab had done], and they departed from the king of Moab and returned to their own land.
