1 And Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. 
2 And Ahaziah fell down by the railing of the upper room of his house in Samaria, and he was sick. And he sent messengers and said to them: Go and inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron whether I will recover of this disease or not. 
3 Then an angel of Yahweh said to Elijah the Tishbite: Arise and go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria. And you will say to them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you go to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron. 
4 Therefore you will answer the king of israel who has sent you by saying, Thus says Yahweh: You will not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, but you will surely die. And Elijah went his way. 
5 And the messengers returned to Ahaziah, and he said to them: Why have you returned so soon. 
6 And they answered him, A man came and met us and said to us: Go back to the king who has sent you and say to him, Thus says Yahweh, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you have sent to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron. Therefore you will not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, but you will surely die. 
7 And Ahaziah said to them: What was the appearance of the man who came to meet you and tell you these words. 
8 And they answered him, He was a hairy man with a leather belt around his waist. And Ahaziah said, It is Elijah the Tishbite. 
9 And the king sent to him a captain of fifty with his fifty men. And the captain went up to look for Elijah and behold, he was sitting on the top of a hill. And the captain said to Elijah, O man of God, the king has said: Come down. 
10 But Elijah answered the captain of fifty, If I am a man of God then may a fire come down from the heaven and devour you and your fifty men. And a fire came down from the heaven and devoured him and his fifty men. 
11 And then Ahaziah sent to Elijah another captain of fifty with his fifty men. And the captain spoke and said to Elijah, O man of God, the king has spoken thus: Come down quickly. 
12 But Elijah answered them, If I am a man of God then may a fire come down from the heaven and devour you and your fifty men. And a fire came down from the heaven and devoured him and his fifty men. 
13 And then Ahaziah sent the third captain of fifty with his fifty men, and the third captain of fifty went up. And he came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and he besought Elijah and said to him: I pray you, O man of God, may my life and the lives of these fifty men of your servants be precious in your sight. 
14 Behold a fire came down from the heaven and devoured the two former captains of fifty with their fifties men. Therefore now may my life be precious in your sight. 
15 And the angel of Yahweh said to Elijah, Go down with him and do not be afraid of him. And Elijah got up and went down with him to the king. 
16 And Elijah said to the king, Thus speaks Yahweh: Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron, as if there were no God in Israel to inquire of his word, therefore you will not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, but you will surely die. 
17 So Ahaziah died according to the word of Yahweh that he had spoken by Elijah. And Jehoram [the brother of Ahaziah] began to reign in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son. 
18 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
