1 And the children of the prophets said to Elisha: Behold now, the place where we dwell with you is too narrow for us. 
2 Let us go now to the Jordan, we pray you. And we will each take a log there, and we will make a place to dwell in. And Elisha replied: Go. 
3 And one of them said, I pray you to come with your servants. And he replied, I will come. 
4 So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they did cut down wood. 
5 And when one of them was cutting down a tree, the iron head of his axe fell into the water. And he cried out and said: Alas master, for it was borrowed. 
6 And the man of God said, Where did it fall. And he showed the place to Elisha. Then Elisha did cut down a piece of wood and threw it at that place in the water, and the iron rose to the surface. 
7 And Elisha said, Take it now. And he stretched out his hand, and took it. 
8 Now the king of Syria was at war against Israel. And he took counsel with his servants and said: My camp will be in such and such a place. 
9 And the man of God sent to the king of Israel by saying: Beware of going to such and such a place, because the Syrians have ambushed there.
10 So the king of Israel sent messengers to the place that the man of God had told him and warned him about, and the king of Israel saved his troops who were there. And it did not happen only once or only twice. 
11 And the heart of the king of Syria was troubled because of this thing. Therefore he called his servants and said to them, Will you not make known to me who among us is cooperating with the king of Israel. 
12 Then one of his servants replied: Nobody, O my lord the king. But it is Elisha the prophet who is in Israel, for he tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom [as if he heard you speaking in his head despite the distance]. 
13 And the king of Syria said: Go and search to know where he is, and I will send men to capture him. And one replied: Behold he is in Dothan. 
14 So the king of Syria sent there horses, and chariots, and a strong company. And they arrived at night and surrounded the city. 
15 And when the servant of the man of God got up early in the morning and went out, behold a company was surrounding the city with horses and chariots. Then his servant said to him: Alas master, how will we do. 
16 And Elisha answered: Fear not, for those who are with us are more numerous than those who are with them. 
17 Then Elisha prayed and said: I beseech you Yahweh, open his eyes so that he may see. And Yahweh opened the eyes of the servant and behold, the servant looked and saw that the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha. 
18 And the Syrians went down to Elisha, and Elisha prayed to Yahweh by saying: I pray you to smite this people with blindness. And Yahweh smote them with blindness, according to the word of Elisha. 
19 And Elisha said to them: This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me therefore, and I will lead you to the man whom you seek [they do not see clearly but it seems preferable to them to return to the their king with the only man whom they have come to seek]. And Elisha led them to Samaria. 
20 And when they had entered Samaria, Elisha said: Yahweh, open their eyes so that they may see. And Yahweh opened their eyes and behold, they saw that they were in the midst of Samaria. 
21 And when the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha: Can I smite them, can I smite them, my father. 
22 And Elisha answered: You will not strike. Do you strike those whom you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow. Give them bread and water so that they may eat and drink, and then let them go to their master. 
23 So the king of Israel set a great repast before them. And when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away and they went to their master. And the troops of the Syrians came no more into the land of Israel. 
24 But afterward Ben-hadad king of Syria assembled all his army, and he went up and besieged Samaria. 
25 So there was a great famine in Samaria. For lo, they besieged it until a donkey's head was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a kab of dove's dung was sold for five pieces of silver. 
26 And as the king of Israel was walking on the wall, a woman cried out to him by saying: Save me, O my lord the king. 
27 And he said: If Yahweh does not save you then with what could I save you. Do I have the produce of the threshing floor or of the winepress. 
28 And the king said to her, What is your problem. And she answered, This woman have said to me: Give your son so that we may eat him today, and tomorrow we will eat my son. 
29 So we boiled my son and ate him. And I said to her on the next day, Give your son so that we may eat him. But she has hidden her son. 
30 And when the king had heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes. He was on the wall where he had gone to walk, and the people looked and behold, the king was wearing a sackcloth on his flesh under the clothes that he had torn. 
31 And the king said: May God acts toward me with all his rigor if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on his body during all this day. 
32 And the king of Israel sent a messenger before him. Now Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting near him. And before the messenger had come to him, Elisha had said to the elders: See now how this son of a murderer has sent someone to take away my head. Be on your guard and when the messenger comes, close the door and push him away with the door. Is not the sound of his master’s feet heard behind him.
33 And while he was still talking with them, the messenger came down to him and said: [Thus has spoken the king] Behold this evil is from Yahweh, therefore why should I wait for Yahweh any longer.
