1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. 
2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, and he walked in all the way of David his father, and he did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
3 And in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, the king sent the secretary Shaphan the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam to the temple of Yahweh. The king sent him with the following command. 
4 Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and tell him to gather the silver that is brought into the house of Yahweh, namely the silver that the keepers of the door have gathered from the people. 
5 And this money will be given into the hands of those who supervise the work in the temple of Yahweh, and they will give it to those who work in the temple of Yahweh to repair the decayed places of the temple. 
6 Namely to the carpenters, and to the artisans, and to the masons, and to purchase timber and hewn stone to repair the temple. 
7 And no reckoning will be made with the supervisors concerning the money that is given into their hand, because they can be trusted. 
8 Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, I have found the book of the Law in the house of Yahweh. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and Shaphan read it. 
9 And Shaphan the secretary went to the king, and reported it to the king by saying: Your servants have gathered the money that was found in the temple, and have delivered it into the hands of those who supervise the work in the temple of Yahweh. 
10 Then Shaphan the secretary said to the king: Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. 
11 And when the king heard the words of the book of the Law, he tore his clothes. 
12 Therefore the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiah the king's servant. The king commanded them with the following words. 
13 Go and inquire of Yahweh for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the anger of Yahweh that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book in order to do according to all that is written for us in it. 
14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, they went to Huldah the prophetess who was the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah the son of Harhas. Shallum was the keeper of the wardrobe of the priests, and Huldah dwelt in the second quarter in Jerusalem. So they went and talked with Huldah. 
15 And she said to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Tell the following thing to man who has sent you to me. 
16 Thus says Yahweh: Behold I will bring evil on this place and on its inhabitants, according to all the words of the book that the king of Judah has read. 
17 Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods, to anger me by all the works of their hands [especially since the days of Manasseh because the many facets of his negative legacy are still visible]. Therefore my anger is kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched. 
18 But you will [also] say to the king of Judah who has sent you to inquire of Yahweh: Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, concerning the words that you have heard. 
19 Because your heart has been grieved, and you have humbled yourself before Yahweh when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants [in the book that you have caused to read before you], when you heard that they should become a desolation and a curse, and because you have torn your clothes and wept before me, therefore I have heard you also, says Yahweh. 
20 Therefore behold I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be put in your grave in peace, and your eyes will not see all the evil that I will bring on this place. And then those servants brought back this answer to the king.
