1 In the twenty one year of Joash the son of Ahaziah and king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria and he reigned seventeen years. 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. For he committed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat by which Jeroboam had caused Israel to sin, because he did not turn away from them. 
3 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael. 
4 And Jehoahaz implored Yahweh, and Yahweh heard him. For Yahweh saw the oppression with which the king of Syria oppressed Israel. 
5 And Yahweh gave Israel a liberator, so that they came out from under the subjection of the Syrians. And the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as formerly. 
6 Nevertheless they did not turn away from the sins of the house of Jeroboam who had caused Israel to sin, and they walked in those sins. And also the grove remained in Samaria. 
7 Although Yahweh had destroyed all the army of Jehoahaz, except fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand foot soldiers. And it is the king of Syria who had caused them to become like dust beaten into powder [without stumbling blocks]. 
8 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did, and his valiant deeds, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Joash his son reigned in his stead. 
10 In the thirty seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash [Joash] the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned sixteen years. 
11 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. For he did not depart from any of the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had caused Israel to sin, but he walked in them. 
12 Concerning the remaining of the acts of Joash and all that he did, and his valiant deeds, and how he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
13 And Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria among the kings of Israel. 
14 Now when Elisha had become sick of the sickness because of which he died, then Joash the king of Israel had come down to him and had wept over his face by saying: O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen. 
15 Then Elisha had said to him, Take a bow and arrows. And Joash had taken a bow and arrows. 
16 And Elisha had said to the king of Israel, Put your hand on the bow. And Joash had put his hand on it, and then Elisha had put his hands on the hands of the king. 
17 And then Elisha had said, Open the window eastward. And Joash had opened it, and Elisha had said, Shoot. And Joash had shot. And then Elisha had said: Behold the arrow of victory of Yahweh, namely the arrow of victory over Syria. For you will smite the Syrians in Aphek until you have destroyed them. 
18 And then Elisha had said, Take the arrows. And Joash had taken them. And Elisha had said to the king of Israel, Smite on the ground. And Joash had smitten three times, and had stopped. 
19 Then the man of God was angry with Joash and had said: You should have smitten five or six times, and thus you would have smitten the Syrians until you have destroyed them [their willingness to fight against you]. Behold now you will smite them only three times. 
20 And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the some companies of the Moabites came into the land the following year. 
21 And when some Israelites were burying a man, behold they saw a company of the Moabites. Therefore they pushed the corpse into the sepulcher of Elisha [which was nearer than the sepulcher which they intended to use, and from the mouth of which they were able to remove the closing stone]. And the corpse of the man came and touched the bones od Elisha, and the man revived and stood up on his feet. 
22 Now Hazael king of Syria had oppressed Israel during all the days of Jehoahaz. 
23 . 
24 And Hazael king of Syria died, and Ben-hadad his son reigned in his place. 
25 And Jehoash [Joash] the son of Jehoahaz took out of the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities which Hazael had taken out of the hand Jehoahaz his father. For [the army of] Joash smote [the army of] Ben-hadad three times, and restored the cities to Israel.
