1 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled again against Israel, and he moved David against them by saying: Go and number Israel and Judah. 
2 For the king said to Joab the captain of the army who was near him: Go speedily now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and number the people so that I may know their total. 
3 And Joab said to the king: May Yahweh your God make the people a hundred times more numerous, and may the eyes of my lord the king see it. But why does my lord the king desire this thing. 
4 Nevertheless the word of the king prevailed against Joab and against the captains of the army [because they have the duty to obey the king if the king does not directly disobey the law of Moses without any constraint and without any precedent, and Moses did not forbid this thing]. Therefore Joab and the captains of the army went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel. 
5 And they passed over the Jordan, and they encamped in Aroer on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad toward Jazer. 
6 Then they went to Gilead, and to Tahtim-hodshi, and so they came to Dan-jaan, and around Sidon. 
7 And they went to the fortress of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites, and they went toward the south of Judah to Beersheba. 
8 So when they had gone through the whole land, then they returned to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 
9 And Joab gave the total of the people to the king. There were in Israel eight hundred thousand men of war who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. [These numbers come from an oral tradition because they were not recorded in the archives that were created in those days.] 
10 But David had been overwhelmed by the beating of his heart after he had sent to number the people. And David had said to Yahweh: I have sinned exceedingly by doing this thing. Therefore I beseech you to forgive the iniquity of your servant. For I have done very foolishly. 
11 And when David had got up in the morning, the word of Yahweh had come to Gad the prophet who was the seer of David. And Yahweh had spoken in the following words. 
12 Go and tell to David, Thus says Yahweh: I offer you three things. Choose among them the one that I will do to you. 
13 So Gad had gone to David and made him know the thing by saying: Do you want three years of famine in your land, or do you want to flee during three months from your enemies who will pursue you, or do you want three days of pestilence in your land. Now think about it and tell me what is the answer that I will give to the one who sent me. 
14 And David had said to Gad: I am in a great anxiety. Let us fall now into the hand of Yahweh because his mercies are immense, and let me not fall into the hand of man. 
15 So Yahweh had sent a pestilence in Israel, from the morning until the appointed time. And seventy thousand men of the people died from Dan to Beersheba.  
16 And when the angel stretched out his hand on Jerusalem to destroy it, then Yahweh repented of the evil and said to the angel who was destroying the people: It is sufficient, take away your hand now. And the angel of Yahweh was near the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. 
17 And David spoke to Yahweh when he saw that the angel was smiting the people, and David said: Behold I have sinned and I am guilty, but what have these sheep done. I pray you, let your hand be on me and my house. 
18 So Gad came to David on that same day and said to him: Go up and build an altar to Yahweh on the threshing floor of Araunah [also known as Ornan] the Jebusite. 
19 And David went up according to word of Gad, as Yahweh had commanded. 
20 And Araunah looked and saw the king and his servants who were coming towards him. And Araunah went out and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. 
21 And Araunah said, Why does my lord the king come to his servant. And David answered: To buy the threshing floor from you and to build there an altar to Yahweh, so that the plague may cease from the people. 
22 Then Araunah said to David: Let my lord the king take it and offer whatever seems good to him. And behold, here are the oxen for the burnt offerings, and the yokes of the oxen for wood, and the threshing utensils. 
23 And Araunah said to the king, May Yahweh your God be favorable to you. Now Araunah did all these things as if he were the king and he were offering something to David.
24 Then the king said to Araunah: Not so, but I will buy it from you at a price. For I will not offer burnt offerings to Yahweh my God with things that have necessitated no effort on my part. 
25 And David built there an altar to Yahweh, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and Yahweh was appeased toward the land, and the plague ceased from Israel.
