1 Now these are the last words of David: The word of David the son of Jesse, the word of the man who has been established at a high place, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the pleasant singer of Israel. 
2 The spirit of Yahweh spoke through me. His word was on my tongue. 
3 The God of Israel spoke to me, the strength of Israel said: Whoever rules over men righteously, whoever rules in the fear of God. 
4 He will be like the morning light that shines when the sun rises and the sky is cloudless. He will be like the sunshine after a rain, its rays bring out greenery from the earth. 
5 Is not my house thus with God. For he has made an everlasting covenant with me, well organized in all things and offering full security. Will he not bring forth all my salvation and all my desires. 
6 But the wicked persons are all like thorns which are to be thrust away because they cannot be taken with the hand. 
7 For whoever touches them is harmed like with a spear made of iron and wood, therefore they will be burned with fire in their place. 
8 Now these are the names of the mighty men [the heroes] whom David had. He who sits on the seat of notable deeds [the seat of wisdom] because he is the bravest of the heroes was Adino the Eznite. He killed eight hundred men at one time. 
9 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite. He was one of the three warriors who were with David when they faced the Philistines who had gathered there to fight, while the men of Israel had gone away. 
10 He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary and the sword fell from his hand. And Yahweh gave a great victory on that day, and the people returned after Eleazar only to take the spoil. 
11 And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. For the Philistines had gathered at a town where was a piece of field full of lentils. And the people fled from the Philistines. 
12 But Shammah placed himself in the middle of the field and defended it, and killed the Philistines. So Yahweh gave a great victory. 
13 And it happened at a harvest time that David was in the cave of Adullam, and three of [those who had been called] the thirty heroes went down and came to meet him there when the army of the Philistines had encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 
14 And David was then in the stronghold, and there was a garrison of the Philistines at Bethlehem. 
15 And David had a desire and he said: Who will give me to drink of the water from the well which is near the gate of Bethlehem. 
16 And the three mighty men went through the camp of the Philistines, and drew water from the well which is near the gate of Bethlehem, and took it, and brought it to David. But David did not want to drink of it, and he poured it on the ground before Yahweh. 
17 And David said: Far be it from me to do this thing, O Yahweh. Will I drink of the blood of these men who have gone in jeopardy of their lives. So David did not want to drink of it. This is what these three mighty men did [and they had been called the three heroes]. 
18 And Abishai the brother of Joab the son of Zeruiah was the chief of the three heroes. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred men and killed them, and he was renowned among the three heroes. 
19 And he was the most excellent of the three and he was their leader, but he had not equal any of the first three of the the thirty heroes. 
20 And [another member of the three heroes was] Benaiah of Kabzeel, the son of Jehoiada the son of a valiant man. He had done mighty deeds. He killed two strong men of Moab, and he also went down and killed a lion in the midst of a pit at the time of snow. 
21 And Benaiah killed an Egyptian who was a man with a great appearance. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand and Benaiah went against him with a staff, and Benaiah plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
22 This is what Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and he was renowned among the three heroes. 
23 He was honorable among the thirty heroes but he had not equal any of the first three of the thirty heroes. And David made him one of his advisors. 
24 And Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty heroes. And Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem. 
25 And Shammah the Harodite. And Elika the Harodite. 
26 And Helez the Paltite. And Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. 
27 And Abiezer the Anathothite. And Mebunnai the Hushathite. 
28 And Zalmon the Ahohite. And Maharai the Netophathite. 
29 And Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite. And Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin. 
30 And Benaiah the Pirathonite. And Hiddai of the river of Gaash. 
31 And Abi-albon the Arbathite. And Azmaveth the Barhumite. 
32 And Eliahba the Shaalbonite. And Jonathan of the sons of Jashen. 
33 And Shammah the Hararite. And Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite. 
34 And Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai the son of Maachathi. And Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite. 
35 And Hezro the Carmelite. And Paarai the Arbite. 
36 And Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah. And Bani the Gadite. 
37 And Zelek the Ammonite. And Naharai the Beerothite an armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah. 
38 And Ira the Ithrite. And Gareb the Ithrite. 
39 And Uriah the Hittite. Thirty seven in all [whom had been called the thirty heroes].
