1 After the death of Saul, when David had returned from smiting the Amalekites and had been two days in Ziklag. 
2 Behold a man came on the third day from the camp of Saul. His clothes were torn and his head was covered with dust, and he came to David and knelt down on the ground and bowed himself. 
3 Then David said to him, Where do you come from. And he answered David, I have escaped from the camp of Israel. 
4 And David said to him: Tell me what has happened, I pray you. And the man said: The people have fled the battlefield, and many men have fallen and died, and also Saul and his son Jonathan have died. 
5 And David said to the young man who have brought him this news: How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan have died. 
6 And the young man who brought him the news replied: I came on the mount Gilboa and behold, Saul was leaning on his spear. And lo, the chariots and horsemen [of his enemies] were coming to him. 
7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me and called me. And I answered: Here I am. 
8 And he said to me, Who are you. And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. 
9 Then he said to me: Come near to me I pray you, and kill me. For my life is still full within me and anguish has taken hold of me. 
10 So I approached him and killed him, because I was sure that he could not survive long. And I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and I have brought them here to my lord.  
11 Then David grasped his own clothes and tore them, and all the men who were near him did the same. 
12 And they mourned and wept, and fasted until the evening. They did it for Saul, and for his son Jonathan, and for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. 
13 Afterward David said to the young man who had brought him the news: From where are you. And he answered: I am the son of a foreigner [who lives in Israel], an Amalekite. 
14 And David said to him: How have you not be afraid to raise your hand and to destroy the anointed of Yahweh. 
15 Then David called one of his young men and said: Come near and kill him. And the man smote the Amalekite, and the Amalekite died. 
16 And David said to him: Your blood is on your own head. For your own mouth has testified against you when you said: I have killed the anointed of Yahweh. 
17 Then David lamented over Saul and over Jonathan his son with the following lamentation. 
18 And David commanded to teach it to the children of Judah, as it is written in the book of Jashar. 
19 Your elite, O Israel, fell on your hills. And look how they fell. 
20 Do not proclaim it in Gath, and do not publish it in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, and lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. 
21 You the mountains of Gilboa, may there be neither dew nor rain on you, nor offerings coming from your fields. For the shield of the mighty has been broken there, the shield of Saul, as if he had not been anointed by the holy one.
22 In the battles against those who wanted to harm them, the bow of Jonathan had never fail and the sword of Saul had never returned empty. They thus shed the blood of warriors and cut the fat of the mighty. 
23 Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and they have not been separated in their death. They were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions. 
24 You the daughters of Israel, weep for Saul who clothed you magnificently in scarlet and put ornaments of gold on your apparel. 
25 Look how the mighty fell in midst of the battle. And Jonathan was killed on your hills. 
26 I grieved for you my brother Jonathan, you have been very kind to me. Your love for me was wonderful, it surpassed the love of women.
27 Look how the mighty fell and how his weapons of war were destroyed.
