1 And it was told Joab: Behold the king weeps and laments because of Absalom. 
2 Therefore the victory of that day was turned into mourning for all the people. For the people heard say in that day: The king grieves for his son. 
3 And on that day the people returned to the city by stealth, as it would have been done by people ashamed of having fled in battle. 
4 And the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice: My son Absalom, Absalom my son, my son. 
5 Then Joab entered the house of the king, and came to him and said: Today you cover the faces of all your servants with shame, these same persons who have saved today your life, and the lives of your sons, and the lives of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines. 
6 You love those who hate you and you hate those who love you, for you have declared today [by your behavior] that the princes and the servants of your kingdom are nothing in your eyes. Therefore I understand now that if Absalom were alive and we were all dead today, then it would have gladdened your heart. 
7 Now therefore arise and go out, and cheer up your servants. For I swear by Yahweh that if you do not go out, then there will not be a man left with you tonight, and it will be worse for you than all the misfortunes that have happened to you since your youth until now. 
8 Then the king arose and sat in the gate, and they said to all the people, Behold the king is sitting in the gate. And all the people came before the king. 
9 Now Israel had fled each man to his tent, and all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel by saying: The king saved us from the hand of our enemies, and he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines. And now he had to flee from the land because of Absalom. 
10 And Absalom, whom we anointed to reign over us, has died in battle. Now therefore why do you not speak about bringing back the king [why should we seek to establish someone else as king over us. For David has gone away only because of his own son who stole our hearts by trickery]. 
11 And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests by saying, Speak to the elders of Judah and say to them: Why are you the last to bring back the king to his house. Now the king said this because what was said throughout all Israel had come to the king. 
12 You are my brothers, you are my bones and my flesh. Why then are you the last to bring back the king. 
13 And you will say to Amasa [who has been the chief of Absalom's army and therefore recognized as representing the majority of the people who had rebelled]: Are you not my bone and my flesh. May God acts toward me with all his rigor if you do not become before me forever captain of the army instead of Joab. 
14 And David bowed the hearts of all the men of Judah as if they had been but one man, and they sent to the king by saying: Return, you and all your servants. 
15 So David set out on his way back to Jerusalem, and came to the Jordan. And the men of Judah went to Gilgal to meet the king and to bring the king across the Jordan. 
16 And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite who was of Bahurim, hastened to go down with the men of Judah to meet king David. 
17 And Shimei had with him a thousand men of Benjamin, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and the fifteen sons and twenty servants of Ziba. And they went over the Jordan to meet the king. 
18 And a boat went over to bring the king’s household and do what he thought good. And when Shimei the son of Gera had come over the Jordan, then he bowed down before the king. 
19 And Shimei said to the king: Let not my lord impute iniquity to me, and let him not remember what your servant did wickedly on the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem. May the king not take this thing to his heart. 
20 For your servant acknowledges that he has sinned. Therefore behold, today I am the first of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king. 
21 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said: Should not Shimei die for cursing the anointed of Yahweh. 
22 But David said: Is this an appropriate response, you the son of Zeruiah. Your advice today is like that of an enemy [for the spirit of Yahweh demands that the answer be proportional to the guilt, and I was no longer recognized as king by the people at the moment when he cursed me, and now he has asked forgiveness from the king]. Should a man be put to death today in Israel for rebelling with Absalom [despite the fact that his motivation and words have gone beyond the scope of this rebellion]. Do I not know that I reign today over all Israel. 
23 And the king said to Shimei, You will not die. And the king swore it to him. 
24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul also went down to meet the king. He had neither washed his feet, nor cut his beard, nor washed his clothes, from the day in which the king had gone until he returned in peace. 
25 And afterward when Mephibosheth went to meet the king at Jerusalem, then the king said to him: Why had you not gone with me Mephibosheth. 
26 And he answered: O my lord the king, my servant has deceived me. For your servant who is lame had said to Ziba his servant: Go and saddle my donkey so that I may ride it and go with the king. 
27 And he has slandered your servant to my lord the king. But my lord the king is like an angel of God. Now therefore do what seems good to you. 
28 For all those of my father's house have been worthy of death before my lord the king, and nevertheless you have placed your servant among those who eat at your table. Now therefore what right do I still have, so that I may cry to the king. 
29 Then the king said to Mephibosheth: Why should you talk more about this matter. I declare now: You and Ziba will divide the land. 
30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, Let him take it in full, for my satisfaction is that my lord the king has returned to his house in peace. 
31 And Barzillai the Gileadite also had came down from Rogelim, and he had crossed the Jordan with the king to accompany him beyond the Jordan [on his way to Jerusalem]. 
32 And Barzillai was a very aged man, he was eighty years old. He had given the king food and other things when David was staying at Mahanaim for he was a very rich man. 
33 And the king said to Barzillai: Come with me at Jerusalem, and I will feed you in my house. 
34 And Barzillai said to the king: How many more years will I live, so that I may go up with the king to Jerusalem. 
35 I am now eighty years old. Can your servant still enjoy what he eats or what he drinks. Can I still discern the voice of men and women who are singing. Why should your servant be a burden to my lord the king. 
36 Your servant will go a little beyond the Jordan with the king, and it is all that I desire as reward. 
37 And your servant will return, and I will die in my own city and be buried in the grave of my father and mother. But here is your servant Chimham, let him go with my lord the king and you will do for him what you what will seem good to you. 
38 And the king answered Barzillai: Whatever you will require of me, I will do it for you. So Chimham will go with me and I will do good to him for your sake. 
39 And when all the people had crossed the Jordan and the king had also crossed it, then the king kissed Barzillai and blessed him. And Barzillai returned to his dwelling. 
40 Then the king went to Gilgal, and Chimham accompanied him. All the people of Judah and half of the people of Israel had been near the Jordan to bring back king. 
41 And behold, all the men of Israel had come to the king by saying: Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you. For they were the most represented tribe among all those who accompanied the king and his household and his men during the crossing of the Jordan. 
42 And all the men of Judah had answered the men of Israel: It is because the king is our close relative. Why now are you angry about this thing. Have we eaten of what comes from the king’s resources [which are to be provided by all the tribes]. Has the king given us any gift. 
43 And the men of Israel had answered the men of Judah: We have ten parts in the king, so we have more rights to David than you. Why then have you despised us, Have we not been the first to propose to bring back our king. And the men of Judah spoke more fiercely than the men of Israel. And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.
