1 And David said: Is there still any man alive from the house of Saul, so that I may do him good because of Jonathan. 
2 And there was a servant of the house of Saul called Ziba, and they brought him to David. And the king said to him: Are you Ziba. And he answered: It is I, your servant. 
3 Then the king said: Is there still any man alive from the house of Saul, so that I may show him the goodness of God. And Ziba answered the king: There is a son of Jonathan who is still alive, and he is lame of his feet. 
4 And the king said to him, Where is he. And Ziba answered the king, He is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel in Lo-debar. 
5 Then king David sent for him, and he was taken from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel in Lo-debar. 
6 And Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul came to David, and he fell on his face and bowed himself. And David said: Mephibosheth. And he answered: Behold your servant. 
7 And David said to him: Do not be afraid, for I will do good to you because of Jonathan your father. I will restore you all the lands of Saul your father, and you will always eat at my table. 
8 And Mephibosheth bowed himself again and said: What is your servant, so that you look at a dead dog like me. 
9 Then the king called Ziba the servant of Saul and said to him: I have given to your master's son everything that belonged to Saul and to all his house. 
10 Therefore you will cultivate the land for him, you, and your sons, and your servants, and bring in its produce so that your master's son [household] may have bread to eat. And Mephibosheth your master's son will always eat at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
11 Then Ziba said to the king, Your servant will do whatever my lord the king commands his servant. So Mephibosheth continually ate at David's table, as one of the king's sons. 
12 And Mephibosheth had a young son named Mica, and all those who dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants of Mephibosheth. 
13 And Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, because he always ate at the king's table. And he was lame in both his feet.
