1 And there was a famine in the days of David that lasted three years. And David sought the face of Yahweh, and Yahweh said: It is because of Saul and of his bloodthirsty house, because he killed the Gibeonites. 
2 The Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but a remaining of the Amorites. And the children of Israel had sworn to them not to fight against them, and nevertheless Saul had wanted to kill them in his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah. And the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. 
3 And David said to the Gibeonites: What should I do for you, and with what will I make an atonement, so that you may bless the inheritance of Yahweh. 
4 And Gibeonites answered: It is not for us a question of silver and gold with Saul and with his house, and it is not up to us to kill someone in Israel. And the king said: What do you want me to do for you. 
5 And they answered the king: This man consumed us, and he planned to destroy us and to make us disappear from the whole territory of Israel. 
6 Therefore give us seven men of his sons and we will hang them before Yahweh at Gibeah of Saul, the city of him who had been the anointed of Yahweh. And the king said: I will give them. 
7 But the king spared Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of the oath that had been made before Yahweh between David and Jonathan the son of Saul. 
8 But the king took the two sons whom Rizpah the daughter of Aiah had given to Saul, namely Armoni and Mephibosheth, and the five sons whom Merab the daughter of Saul had given to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite. 
9 And the king delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and the Gibeonites hanged them on the mountain before Yahweh. All seven died together. They were put to death in the days of the harvest, at the beginning of the harvest of barley. 
10 And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took a bag and put it on a rock to stay on it. And she was there from the beginning of the harvest until the rain in the sky has come on them, and she prevented the birds of the sky from approaching them during the day, and the beasts of the field during the night. 
11 And David was informed of what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah the concubine de Saul had done. 
12 And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, who had removed them from the street of Beth-shan where the Philistines had hanged them when they killed Saul in Gilboa. 
13 So he brought from there the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son, and they gathered the bones of those who were hanged. 
14 And they buried the bones of Saul and of Jonathan his son in the country of Benjamin in Zela, in the sepulcher of Kish his father. And they performed all that the king had commanded. After that, God was peaceful towards the land. 
15 And the Philistines continued to wage war against Israel. And David went down with his servants, and they fought against the Philistines, and David was tired. 
16 And Ishbi-benob who was one of the sons of Rapha thought of killing David. He had a spear of the weight of three hundred shekels of brass, and he was girded with a new sword. 
17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succored David, and smote the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore to Abishai by saying: You will no longer go out with us to battle, for you will not darken the brightness of the lamp of Israel [namely the king]. 
18 And after that, there was a battle with the Philistines at Gob. And Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Saph who was one of the sons of Rapha. 
19 And there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob. And Elhanan the son of Jaare-oregim the Bethlehemite killed Goliath the Gittite, who had a spear whose staff was like a weaver's beam. 
20 And there was again a battle at Gath, and there was a tall man who had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty four [fingers and toes] in total. He was the son of Rapha. 
21 And when he challenged Israel, then Jonathan the son of Shimei the brother of David killed him. 
22 These four men were born to Rapha in Gath, and they died by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.
