1 Afterward when the king dwelt in his house and Yahweh had given him rest from all his enemies all around. 
2 Then the king said to Nathan the prophet: Behold I dwell now in a house of cedar wood, and the ark of God dwells in a tent within curtains. 
3 And Nathan answered the king: Go and do whatever is in your heart, for Yahweh is with you. 
4 And Yahweh spoke to Nathan in the same night with the following words. 
5 Go and tell my servant David, Thus says Yahweh: Are you the one who will build for me the house where I will dwell. 
6 For I have not dwelt in a house [that belongs to me] since the day that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt until this day, but I have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle. 
7 And wherever I have walked with all the children of Israel, have I spoken a word to any of the tribes of Israel in the days when I commanded the judges to save my people Israel. Have I said: Why have you not build me a house of cedar wood.  
8 Now therefore you will say to my servant David, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: I have taken you from the sheepfold, where you were following the sheep, and made you ruler over my people, over Israel. 
9 And I have been with you wherever you have walked, and I have destroyed all your enemies before you, and I have made your name great like the name of the great men who are on the earth. 
10 And now my people Israel possess a home, and I have planted them so that they may dwell in their own place and move no more, and the wicked peoples will no longer trouble them as before. 
11 For I have given you rest from all your enemies [you are not and you will not be subject to their domination and their will], as in the days when I appointed judges over my people Israel. And now Yahweh tells you that he will build a house for you. 
12 For when your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, then I will raise up your descendant after you, one who will comes out of your own bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. 
13 And he will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. 
14 I will be his father and he will be my son. If he does evil, then I will punish him with the rod of men and with the plagues of the children of men. 
15 But my grace will not depart from him, as I withdrew it from Saul whom I have rejected before you. 
16 Your house and your kingdom will be established forever before you, your throne will be established forever. 
17 And Nathan told David all these words and all this vision. 
18 Then king David went in [the tent that he had set up for the ark God], and did sit before Yahweh and said: Who am I, O Lord Yahweh, and what is the importance of my father’s house, so that you have brought me where I am. 
19 And nevertheless all this kindness toward me is a small thing in your eyes, O Lord Yahweh. For you have spoken of the house of your servant for the times of a distant future. But how can you want to inform a man of this thing, O Lord Yahweh. 
20 What can David tell you after all this. You know your servant, Lord Yahweh. 
21 Because of your word, and according to your heart, you have done all these great things and revealed the future of your servant. 
22 You are so great, O God Yahweh. For there is no one like you, and there is no other God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
23 Is there any nation on earth like your people, like Israel whom God went to redeem for himself to make them his people and to establish his own name. And for your sake you have done great and terrible things for your land and for your people, whom you redeemed for yourself from Egypt, and from the nations and their gods. 
24 For you have chosen your people Israel to be your people forever. And you, Yahweh, have become their God. 
25 And now, Yahweh God, confirm forever the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and his house. Act according to what you have spoken [I do not want anything more or less]. 
26 And let your name be glorified forever by those who will say: Yahweh the God of armies is the God of Israel. And let the house of your servant David be established before you. 
27 For you, O Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, you have revealed this thing to your servant by saying, 'I will build you a house'. This is why your servant has had the courage to speak this prayer to you. 
28 For you are God, O Lord Yahweh, and your words are truth, and you have declared this good thing to your servant. 
29 Now therefore, let it please you to bless the house of your servant so that it may continue forever before you. For you, O Lord Yahweh, have spoken it. And by your blessing the house of your servant is blessed forever.
