1 Then Joab the son of Zeruiah realized that the king’s heart was continually thinking about Absalom. 
2 Therefore Joab sent messengers at Tekoa and brought from there a subtle woman. And Joab said to her: I pray you, put on yourself a mourning apparel and pretend to mourn a dead. And do not anoint yourself with oil, but be like a woman who now had mourned a dead for a long time. 
3 And you will go to the king, and you will speak to him in such way. And Joab taught her what she should say. 
4 Then the woman of Tekoa went to speak to the king. And she knelt on the ground and bowed herself, and she said: O king, save me. 
5 And the king said to her, What is your problem. And she answered: I am indeed a widow, for my husband is dead. 
6 And your handmaid had two sons. They have both quarreled in the fields, and there was no one to separate them, and the one smote the other and killed him. 
7 And behold, the whole family have raised themselves against your handmaid by saying, Deliver us the one who smote his brother, so that we may killed him for the life of his brother whom he killed. Therefore they will also destroy the heir, and thus extinguish the sparkle that remains for me, and also my husband will have neither name nor descendants on the earth. 
8 And the king said to the woman: Go to your house, and I will give commands concerning your case. 
9 Then the woman of Tekoa said to the king: O my lord the king, may the iniquity [of what has happened] be on me, and may the king and his throne be guiltless. 
10 And the king said: if someone speaks against you then bring him to me, and he will not touch you anymore. 
11 Then she said: I pray you, let the king swear by Yahweh your God that the avengers of blood who are appointed to this purpose in your kingdom will not increase the ruin and will not destroy my son. And the king answered: As Yahweh is alive, even one hair of your son will not fall to the ground [by their hands]. 
12 Then the woman said: I pray you, let your handmaid speak a word to my lord the king. And the king answered: Speak.
13 The woman said: Why do you think this way about the people of God, since it follows from the king's own words that the king is guilty in not bringing back him whom he has banished [the whole context of what happened between Cain and Abel was not necessarily specified, and there was no one to understand exactly the quarrel between my sons, and the king's son had a real motive although his response was harsh because there is a subtle difference between obeying God and obeying Moses]. 
14 For we must certainly die, and we will be like waters scattered on the ground which no longer gather. And God makes no exception for anyone, but he plans ways not to completely eliminate the one whom he expels from his inheritance. 
15 Now if I have come to say these things to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid. And your handmaid said: I will now speak to the king, and perhaps the king will answer favourably to the request of his handmaid. 
16 For the king will listen to his handmaid, and save her from the hand of those who seek to destroy us, me and my son [and my dead husband], from the inheritance of God. 
17 Therefore your handmaid said: The word of my lord the king will give me rest. For my lord the king is like an angel of God regarding the discernment between good and evil. And Yahweh your God is with you. 
18 Then the king answered and said to the woman, Do not hide from me what I am going to ask you. And the woman said, Let my lord the king speak now. 
19 And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with you in all this. And the woman answered and said: As your soul is alive, my lord the king, there is nothing to the right or to the left of all that my lord the king has spoken. For your servant Joab has given me instructions, and he has put all these words in the mouth of your handmaid. 
20 Your servant Joab has done this thing to present the matter from another perspective. But my lord the king is as wise as an angel of God to understand everything that is happening on earth. 
21 Then the king said to Joab: Behold now, I am willing to do this thing. Go and bring back the young man Absalom. 
22 And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and bowed himself, and he blessed the king. Then Joab said: Your servant knows today that I have found grace in your sight, my lord the king, since the king has fulfilled the request of his servant. 
23 And Joab got up and went to Geshur, and he brought Absalom to Jerusalem. 
24 But the king said: Let him turn to his own house and not see my face. So Absalom went into his own house, and saw not the face of the king. 
25 There was not a man in all Israel so renowned as Absalom for the beauty of his appearance. From the soles of his feet to the top of the head, there was no blemish on him. 
26 And whenever he shaved his head, and he did it at the end of every year because it was too heavy for him, then the weight of the hair of his head was two hundred shekels according to the king's weight unit. 
27 And Absalom had three sons, and one daughter named Tamar who was a beautiful woman to look at. 
28 And Absalom dwelt in Jerusalem two years without having seen the face of the king. 
29 Then Absalom sent for Joab to send him to the king, but Joab would not come to him. And Absalom sent again, and Joab would not come to him. 
30 Therefore Absalom said to his servants: Behold Joab has a field which is near my field, and there is barley. Go now and set it on fire. So Absalom's servants set fire to the field of Joab. 
31 Then Joab got up and came to Absalom's house, and he said to Absalom: Why have your servants burned my field with fire. 
32 And Absalom answered Joab: Behold I have sent for you by saying, Come here and I will send you to the king. So you will say to the king: Why have I returned from Geshur, for it would have been better for me if I had still been there. Now therefore let me see the face of the king, and if there is any transgression [of the law of Moses] in me then let the king kill me. 
33 Then Joab went to the king and told him this thing, and the king called Absalom. And Absalom came to the king, and bowed himself to the ground on his face before the king. And the king kissed Absalom.
