1 And David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand men. 
2 And David and all the people who were with him went to Baale of Judah [which is Kiriath-baal or Kiriath-jearim], to bring up from there the ark of God which is called by the name of Yahweh the God of armies who dwells between the cherubim above the ark. 
3 And they put the ark of God on a new chariot, and carried it from the house of Abinadab which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio the sons of Abinadab drove the new chariot. 
4 So they took it from the house of Abinadab on the hill. And Uzzah walked beside the ark of God, and Ahio went before the ark. 
5 And David and all the house of Israel played before Yahweh with all kinds of instruments made of fir wood, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with tambourines, and with castanets, and with cymbals. 
6 And when they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, then Uzzah stretched his hand toward the ark of God and caught it because the oxen did shake it. 
7 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him at the same place for his sin [because his intention was to prevent God from falling at a time when the exact identity of God is still unknown, God himself who was identified by this ark and not a man]. And Uzzah died there, near the ark of God. 
8 And David was angry because Yahweh had punished Uzzah with such a punishment. And this place has been called Perez-uzzah from that time to this day. 
9 And David was afraid of Yahweh on that day, and he said: How can I bring the ark of Yahweh to my home. 
10 And David He would not bring the ark of Yahweh to his home in the city of David, but he brought it to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
11 And the ark of Yahweh stayed in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months, and Yahweh blessed Obed-edom and all his house. 
12 And they reported it to king David by saying: Yahweh has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that belongs to him, because of the ark of God. Therefore David went and brought the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom to the city of David with rejoicings. 
13 And when those who carried the ark of Yahweh had walked six steps, then he offered [he caused to offer] an ox and a fatling. 
14 And David danced with all his soul before Yahweh. He was girded with a linen ephod. 
15 So David and all the house of Israel brought the ark of Yahweh with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. 
16 And as the ark of Yahweh entered the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at a window and saw that king David was jumping and dancing before Yahweh. And she despised him in her heart. 
17 And when they had brought in the ark of Yahweh, then they put it in its place in the middle of the tent that David had set up for it. Then David offered [he caused to offer] burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
18 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, then he blesses the people in the name of Yahweh the God of armies.
19 And he distributed to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, both to men and to women, to each one a cake of bread and a piece of flesh and a bottle of wine. And all the people went away, each one to his house. 
20 Then David returned to bless his household, and Michal the daughter of Saul went out to meet David. And she said: The king of Israel has been glorified today when he uncovered himself in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as a worthless man would have done by himself. 
21 Then David said to Michal: I was before Yahweh who has chosen me instead of your father and all his house, to be ruler over the people of Yahweh, over Israel. Therefore I danced before Yahweh. 
22 I want to seem even more fool than that, and humble myself in my own eyes, and I will nevertheless be honored by the handmaids of whom you have speaken.
23 And concerning Michal the daughter of Saul, she had no children until the day of her death.
