1 Afterward David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Methegammah from the hands of the Philistines. 
2 And he defeated the Moabites, and he killed by lot two thirds of the defeated soldiers by measuring them with a cord after having made them lie on the ground on a line. Those who was in the space of two successive lengths of the rope were killed, and those who were in the space of the following length were kept alive [and the rope was reused in the same way until all the captives had been measured]. And the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts. 
3 And David defeated the king of Zobah who was Hadadezer the son of Rehob when he went to recover his dominion at the Euphrates river. 
4 And David took from them one thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And David destroyed all the chariots but reserved one hundred of them. 
5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadadezer the king of Zobah, then David killed twenty two thousand men of the Syrians. 
6 And David put garrisons in the city Damascus of the Syrians, and the Syrians became the servants of David and brought gifts. And Yahweh protected David wherever he went. 
7 And David took the shields of gold that the servants of Hadadezer had, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
8 And king David also took a large quantity of brass from Betah and Berothai which were of the cities of Hadadezer. 
9 And Toi the king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer. 
10 Therefore Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to greet him and to congratulate him for having attacked Hadadezer and having defeated him. For Toi was at war with Hadadezer. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass. 
11 And king David dedicated them to Yahweh, as he had already dedicated the silver and gold taken from all the nations that he had subdued. 
12 Of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer the son of Rehob and king of Zobah. 
13 And another reputation was added to David when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the valley of salt, eighteen thousand men. 
14 And he put garrisons in Edom. He stationed garrisons throughout all Edom, and all Edom became the servants of David. And Yahweh protected David wherever he went. 
15 And David reigned over all Israel, and he acted with fairness and justice towards all his people. 
16 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was in control of the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was archivist. 
17 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abiathar the son of Ahimelech, they were priests. And Seraiah was scribe. 
18 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in control of the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David were chief rulers.
