1 Afterward the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his place. 
2 And David said: I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness towards me. And David sent his servants to comfort Hanun concerning his father. So the servants of David came into the land of the children of Ammon. 
3 And the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun their master: Do you think that David has sent you comforters in order to honor your father. Has not David sent his servants to you in order to search the city, and to spy it, and to destroy it. 
4 Therefore Hanun took [he caused to take] David's servants and shaved off half of the beard of each [on a side of their faces], and [he caused to] cut off their garments in the middle of their buttocks, and sent them away. 
5 And when David heard it, then he sent some men to meet them because those servants of David were exceedingly ashamed. And the king said to them [he caused to say to them]: Stay in Jericho until your beards has grown, and then return. 
6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, then the children of Ammon sent messengers and hired twenty thousand foot soldiers among the Syrians of Beth-rehob and the Syrians of Zobah, and also one thousand men from the king of Maacah, and twelve thousand men among the people of Tob. 
7 And when David heard of it, then he sent Joab and the whole army of the strong men. 
8 And the children of Ammon went out, and put the battle in array at the entrance of the gate. And the Syrians of Zobah, and of Rehob, and the men of Tob, and of Maacah, they were apart in the field. 
9 When Joab saw that the battle was set up against him before and behind, then he chose men from all the elite of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. 
10 And he placed the remaining of the people into the hand of his brother Abishai, so that he may put them in array against the children of Ammon. 
11 And Joab said to Abishai: If the Syrians are stronger than I then you will come and help me, and if the children of Ammon are stronger than you then I will come and help you. 
12 Be strong and let us be valiant for our people and for the cities of our God, and may Yahweh do what is good in his sight. 
13 Then Joab and the men who were with him went forth against the Syrians, and the Syrians fled before him. 
14 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, then they also fled before Abishai and entered the city. Then Joab returned from the battle against the children of Ammon [and their mercenaries] and came to Jerusalem. 
15 And when the Syrians saw that they [their mercenaries] had been defeated by Israel, then they gathered themselves together. 
16 And Hadarezer sent for the Syrians who were on the other side of the river. And they came to Helam, and Shobach the captain of the army of Hadarezer went before them. 
17 And when David heard it, then he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves in array against David, and fought with him. 
18 And the Syrians fled before Israel. And David killed among the army of the Syrians seven thousand men of chariots and forty thousand foot soldiers. And David also smote Shobach the captain of their army, and Shobach died there. 
19 And when all the kings who had been subdued by Hadarezer saw that they fell before Israel, then they made peace with Israel and served the Israelites. And the Syrians no longer dared to help the children of Ammon.
