1 And David moved a little on the top of the mountain, behold on the other side came Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth. Ziba had two saddled donkeys on which there were two hundred loaves of bread, and one hundred bunches of raisins, and one hundred dried figs, and a bottle of wine. 
2 And the king said to Ziba: What do you want to do with this. And Ziba answered: The donkeys are to be ridden by the king's household, and the bread and the dried figs are to be eaten by the young men, and the wine is to be drunk by those who are weary in the wilderness. 
3 And the king said, Where is your master's son. And Ziba answered the king: Behold he has stayed in Jerusalem. For he has said, Today the house of Israel will restore me the kingdom of my father. 
4 Then the king said to Ziba, Behold everything that belongs to Mephibosheth is yours. And Ziba said: I bow before you, let me find grace in your sight O my lord the king. [Now Moses said that the testimony of only one man would not be sufficient to establish any fact but David reacted by the spirit of Yahweh in a context where he has no reason to doubt that Ziba wishes to be his servant] 
5 And when king David was coming to Bahurim, behold there came a man of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei the son of Gera. He came uttering curses. 
6 And he threw stones at David and at all the servants of king David. And all the people and all the men of war were on the right and on the left of the king. 
7 And thus spoke Shimei when he cursed: Go away, go away, you the murderer and nasty man. 
8 Yahweh has brought back on you all the blood of the house of Saul in whose stead you have reigned. And Yahweh has delivered your kingdom into the hands of Absalom your son. And behold, you are caught in your wickedness because you are a murderer. 
9 Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king: Why does this dead dog curse my lord the king. I pray you, let me go to cut off his head.  
10 But the king said: Is this an appropriate response, you the son of Zeruiah. If he cursed then it is because Yahweh has said to him, Curse David. Who can ask oneself why he has done it. 
11 And David said to Abishai and to all his servants: Behold my son who came out of my bowels seeks my life. How much more can this Benjamite do it now. Let him alone and let him curse, because Yahweh has caused him to do it. 
12 Perhaps Yahweh will look at my affliction due to the curses that this man has uttered today, and will do me good because of it. 
13 And David and his people continued their way. And Shimei went along on the side of the hill near David, and cursed as he went, and threw stones and dust at him.
14 And the king and all the people who were with him came weary to a suitable place, and there they refreshed themselves. 
15 And Absalom entered Jerusalem with Ahithophel and all the men of Israel. 
16 And when Hushai the Archite the friend of David came to Absalom, then he said to Absalom: God save the king, God save the king. 
17 Then Absalom said to Hushai: Is this your kindness toward your friend. Why did you not go with your friend. 
18 Hushai answered Absalom: I will serve him whom Yahweh has chosen. This people and all Israel have chosen you therefore I will stay with you. 
19 And furthermore, is it not his son whom I will serve. As I served your father, so I will serve you. 
20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel: Give your advice regarding what we should do. 
21 And Ahithophel said to Absalom: Go to the concubines of your father, those whom he has left here to maintain the house. And thus all Israel will know that you have made yourself odious to your father, and the hands of all those who are with you will be strengthened. 
22 So they set up a tent for Absalom at the top of the house, and Absalom went into it to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. 
23 Now the advice given in those days by Ahithophel was as relevant as if one had consulted God himself. It was so for all the counsels of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.
