1 And David had spoken the words of this song to Yahweh when Yahweh had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies and out of the hand of Saul. 
2 And he said: Yahweh is my strength and my fortress, he is my liberator. 
3 God is my strength, it is in him that I trust. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my high tower and my refuge. You are my savior, you have saved me from violence.
4 I will call on Yahweh, for he is worthy of praise. And so I will be saved from my enemies. 
5 For the waves of death had surrounded me, and the floods of the ungodly men had made me afraid. 
6 The ropes of the sepulcher had surrounded me, and the snares of death came on me. 
7 But in my tribulation I have called on Yahweh and I have cried to my God. And he watched from his temple and heard my voice, and my cry entered his ears. 
8 And the earth shivered and quaked, and the foundations of the heavens shook. They have trembled because he was angry. 
9 Smoke went out of his nostrils, and a consuming fire out of his mouth, and coals were kindled. 
10 He lowered the heavens and he came down, and darkness was under his feet.
11 He rode on the cherub and flew, and he was seen on the wings of the wind.
12 He wrapped himself in darkness that covered him like a tent, and he was hidden by dark clouds filled with water. 
13 Coals of fire were kindled because of the splendor of his presence. 
14 Yahweh thundered from heaven, the Most High uttered his voice. 
15 He shot arrows and scattered my enemies, he sent lightnings which confused them. 
16 The bed of the sea appeared. The foundations of the world were exposed by the rebuke of Yahweh, by the sound of the breath of his nostrils. 
17 He stretched out his hand from above and grasped me, he took me out of the many waters. 
18 He saved me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, because they were too mighty for me. 
19 They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support. 
20 He has saved me and he has set me free, because he loves me. 
21 Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, he has recompensed me according to the purity of my hands. 
22 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and I have not been guilty towards my God. 
23 For all his laws were before me, and his ordinances, and I have not departed from them. 
24 I have been honest with him, and I have kept myself against my iniquity. 
25 Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my purity before his eyes. 
26 You show yourself good with the one who is good, and you act uprightly with the upright man. 
27 You show yourself pure with him who is pure, and with the perverse you act according to his perversity. 
28 You save the people who humble themselves, and your eyes are on the haughty men to humiliate them. 
29 Yahweh enlightens my darkness. Surely you are my light, O Yahweh. 
30 I rush towards an armed troop because of you, I jump over a wall because of my God. 
31 The way of God is uncorrupted, the word of Yahweh is tested and proved to be reliable. He is a shield to all those who trust in him. 
32 For who is God besides Yahweh, and who is a refuge except our God. 
33 God is my strength in the battle, and he guides me to the right path. 
34 He makes my feet like those of a deer, and he places me on my high places. 
35 He teaches my hands to fight, so that a bow of brass is broken by my arms. 
36 You have also given me the shield of your salvation, and I have become great because of your goodness. 
37 You widen the path under my feet, and my feet do not waver. 
38 I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them, I have not turned until I had consumed them. 
39 I have destroyed them and broken them. They will not arise again, but they will fall under my feet. 
40 You have girded me with strength for battle, and you have subdued under me those who had risen against me. 
41 You have caused my enemies to turn their backs before me, and I have overcome those who hated me. 
42 They looked around them, and there was no one to save them. And they cried out to Yahweh, but he did not answer them. 
43 And I crushed them in small pieces like the dust of the earth, and I trampled them like the mud of the streets, and did spread them abroad. 
44 You have saved me from the dissensions of my people, and you have kept me as ruler of the nations. A people whom I did not know serve me. 
45 The sons of foreigners flatter me, they obey me at the first command. 
46 The sons of foreigners are weakened and come out of their strongholds trembling. 
47 Yahweh is alive, blessed be the God of my strength. Let the strength of my salvation be exalted. 
48 The God who is my avenger, who subdues the peoples to me. 
49 He rescues me from my enemies. You help me to defeat those who rise against me, you save me from the violent man. 
50 Therefore I will praise you among the nations, O Yahweh, and I will sing to the glory of your name. 
51 He makes great deliverances for his king and he shows mercy to his anointed, to David and to his seed forever.
