1 Motivation (John 6:29 - Proverbs 1:7), second part: Personal thoughts inspired by christian scriptures.
2 Do whatever you want, but never rush to do anything, no matter how urgent the situation. Always take a minimum of time to analyze the situation and gather information in order to be convinced to keep a good conscience in relation to everyone at the same time, even unknown people. And do not forget that you could become what you do.
3 Christian faith is not generosity towards anyone but rather firmness in good conscience towards everyone at the same time, absolutely everyone and not just a few people otherwise it would be idolatry. 
4 The Christian Cross, the sweet sacrifice: to consider at every moment an assembly of a few people likely to be honest and randomly chosen from all over the population, and to wonder if knowing all I know and nothing but what I know, they would approve or condemn what I am doing. 
5 I learned to recognize the hand of God in each of my interactions with anyone or anything, and I know that if he is not experiencing my faith in Jesus Christ then it is a mission he entrusts to me. 
6 All ordinary men are born in darkness and must commit sins. But while the children of God who were elected before the foundation of the world felt shame or acted out of ignorance before the days of their conversions, the demons rather experienced pleasure when they carried out reprehensible works. 
7 Never rejoice at the misfortune of your enemies but be saddened by the fact that God did not grant them repentance so that you could support them as a friend would have done. 
8 The commonality between a demon and a child and a spiritually immature person is that each of them knows in his heart that some of his actions or words can only be properly justified by someone else. Indeed, even one who uses a technology that he did not conceive must at least be convinced to triumph on the day of judgment by his objective. 
9 When can we think that Christ is the motive. The motive is Christ when we seek the interest of all in general and no one in particular. The motive is Christ when one can justify one's actions with confidence by taking into account all the antecedents of which one is aware. The motive is Christ when we want to explain that the inheritance of God (membership to the Israel of God) is not distributed according to genealogies but according to faith in the holy commandment. 
10 Every masterpiece is noticed spontaneously. What is appreciated in more time is of a lower quality. 
11 If absolutely no one can accuse me publicly by evoking the entire history of our relationship as evidence, without omitting anything, then I do not commit any sin. 
12 If you think that you will be accused if what you want to do was shown to randomly selected strangers from all of humanity, explaining to them all the details of the context to your knowledge, then resist and do not do it because the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom and even sins committed in the times of ignorance, in the distant past, must have consequences. 
13 When they make any archaeological discovery that they manage to situate in time with a certain precision, what motivates them to share and make public their results if it is not the exact identity of Christ and the purpose of life. Let them answer the question so that everything is clear once and for all for everyone.
