1 The gift of tongues by the holy spirit.
2 If I speak in a language that does not exist, how is it a miracle.
3 Does speaking in tongue mean to express oneself in a language that does not exist among men, or does it mean to express oneself in a language that has not been learned but that is already used by certain groups of people (Acts 2:8-11).
4 One can wonder if each spectator heard in his native tongue the words of every apostle. Or if each apostle spoke in one language which was the mother tongue of a part of the audience. Or if each apostle was speaking in different languages, and each time it was the mother tongue of a part of the audience. Or if it was only the spectators with the gift of listening who understand the meaning of the words of each apostle (1 Corinthians 14:23 - Acts 2:4-8).
5 On the other hand, one may wonder if the apostle Paul is referring to the gift of interpretation of languages that do not exist (they are not usually used by any group of men). Or if the apostle Paul is referring to the gift of interpretation of dreams. Or if the apostle Paul is referring to the gift of interpretation of languages that have not been learned but are already used by certain people (1 Corinthians 12:30 - 14:5,26). 
6 On the other hand, Paul himself cannot claim that the tongues of angels will cease since his teaching is precisely that we will become like angels when we leave this world. 
7 Let us not forget that figures of rhetoric are a specialty of the Gospels and apostles (1 Corinthians 12:10 - 13:1,8-10 - 14:2).
8 Finally, we understand that Paul (1 Corinthians 13:1-2) and consequently Jesus also (Luke 17:6) are using hyperboles.
9 Because to be loved by God it is necessary and sufficient to be inhabited by the notion of 'relative truth' which is the hallmark of God (1 John 4:7-8).
10 And which is only recognizable by the love of the general interest namely his only begotten Son (John 10:30).
11 And this characteristic of God is found in a small proportion in every 'child of God' and in an incomparable quantity in Jesus of Nazareth.
