1 Falsifications in the bible, first part: The new testament.
2 If we presented a story of the future events to a scientist, he would be well inspired to check the correspondence between the events described and the reality of the facts before deciding on the plausibility of the extrasensory capacities of the author. 
3 But one would have to wonder if the story could have been altered, one way or another, before its transmission. 
4 We know in ourselves that a text which claims to be a word of God, the creator of all things, can contain no lie [and a lie is in the quality of the result that an author hopes to obtain by all the subtleties of the content of his message]. And this is confirmed by the apostle (1 John 2:18-21).  
5 About the epistle to the Hebrews. 
6 The writer of Hebrews teaches that Melchizedek is a living priest who lives forever. 
7 He compares Melchizedek to God by stating that he has neither father nor mother. And neither beginning of days nor end of life.  
8 And that Melchizedek is a priest continuously even today, and is a great man because Abraham gave him the tithe of the spoil and because it is unquestionably the inferior who is blessed by the superior. 
9 And this author says also that those who perceive the tithe instituted by the law in the old testament are mortal men and he writes about Melchizedek: but there, it is the one of whom it is attested that he is alive. 
10 No man takes this glory to himself, unless he is called by God as was Aaron. Neither did Christ take to himself the honor of becoming high priest, but he received it from the one who said to him: You are my Son, this day have I begotten you. As he says elsewhere: You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek (Hebrews 5:4-6). 
11 For this Melchizedek was the king of Salem, the priest of the God Most High, who met Abraham when he returned from the defeat of the kings and blessed him. And to whom Abraham gave tithe of all things. He who is first king of justice according to the meaning of his name, and then king of Salem namely king of peace. The one who is without father, and without mother, and without genealogy. He who has neither beginning of days nor end of life, but is made like the Son of God. This Melchizedek remains a priest in perpetuity. Now consider how great was this man to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tithe of the spoils. For those of the sons of Levi who exercise the priesthood have, according to the law, the order to collect tithes from the people, namely from their brothers, although they came from the waist of Abraham. But he who did not draw his origin from them, took the tithe of Abraham and blessed him who had the promises. Now it is without doubt the lower who is blessed by the higher (Hebrews 7:1-7).
12 And here those who receive tithes are mortal men. But there it is one of whom it is witnessed that he is alive. And to put it bluntly, Levi who receives the tithe paid the tithe through Abraham. For he was still in the waist of his father when Melchizedek went to meet Abraham (Hebrews 7:8-10).
13 If then perfection had been possible through the Levitical priesthood, for the people received the law under this priesthood, why was there still necessary for another priest to appear according to the order of Melchizedek and not according to the order of Aaron? For the priesthood being changed, there is also necessarily a change of the law. For the one about whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, of which no member has served at the altar. For it is well known that our Lord came out of Judah, a tribe of which Moses said nothing concerning the priesthood. And it becomes even more obvious when another priest appears in the likeness of Melchizedek, who is not made priest according to the law of carnal ordinance but according to the power of an imperishable life. For this testimony is given to him: You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek (Hebrews 7:11-17). 
14 I believe that the author of this epistle to the Hebrews did not understand the message of the gospels (Luke 9:46-48 - 22:24-27). 
15 He did not understand that Jesus is the only priest alive (John 14:6). 
16 He did not understand that Jesus is comparable to God only because he never said a lie.
17 And he did not understand that it just means we have to get closer to Jesus only by faith in him (faith in the notion of love of neighbor) in the same way that Melchizedek was a priest (logically devoted to social work) only by faith at a time when the law of Moses was not enunciated (Psalms 110:1-4 - Exodus 19:5-6,24-25 - Genesis 14:18-20 - And Jacob made a promise in Genesis 28:16-22 and we must think that he fulfilled that promise since he had returned in peace to the house of his father according to Genesis 27:41-46 - 28:1-5 - 35:1-7,27-29). 
18 I think this author is an antichrist who wants to encourage idolatry.
19 About the epistle of James. 
20 The author of the epistle of James suggests that it is poverty in material things that conditions access to eternal life. 
21 May the brother of humble condition rejoice in his elevation. And he who is rich, in his humiliation. For it will pass away like the flower of the grass. The sun has risen with its fiery heat and is withering the grass. And its flower falls, and the beauty of its appearance is gone. Likewise the rich withers in his way (James 1:9-11). Listen, my beloved brothers. Has not God chosen the poor in the eyes of the world, so that they may be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? But you have despised the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and bring you to court? Are they not the ones who insult the honorable name by which you are called? (James 2:5-7).
22 And this is completely false (1 Thimothy 6:17-19 - Luke 19:1-10).
23 He also suggests that faith, and not repentance for sinful behavior, should be practiced in mourning and tears.
24 Feel your misery, and be in mourning and tears. Let your laughter turn into mourning, and your joy into sadness. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you (James 4:9-10).
25 Yet the characteristics of faith imply that we must rejoice in hope and be patient in affliction (Philippians 4:4 - 1 Pierre 3:15-16 - 5:10).
26 He also teaches that a sick person will obtain healing and forgiveness for his sins by calling on the elders of the church to pray and perform rituals provided that trust of the sick person is total in this action of the elders of the church. 
27 Is anyone among you sick. Let him call the elders of the Church and let these elders pray for him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, they will be forgiven him. Therefore confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be healed. For the fervent prayer of a righteous man is very useful (James 5:14-16). If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask God who gives to all simply and without reproach. And it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith and without doubting. For he who doubts is like the wave of the sea, tossed by the wind and driven from side to side. Let not such a man imagine that he will receive anything from the Lord (James 1:5-7).
28 This author is a true antichrist (Exodus 20:3 - Luke 16:16).
29 The first commandment simply indicates that one must beware of any kind of idolatry since in reality there is only one God who is God is by his nature. And in any case, prayer only serves to strengthen the one who prays, as I will expose it in the section 'Figures of rhetoric, Prayer'. 
30 About the epistle of Jude. 
31 The author asks us to hate those who are against our opinions, to hate even the tunic soiled by their flesh. 
32 Have compassion for some, by making a difference. And save others by pulling them from the fire. And for others, have mercy mixed with fear, even hating the tunic soiled by the flesh (Jude 22-23). 
33 He is an antichrist because he moves away from the definition of the christian faith (2 Peter 1:5-10) and the implications of this definition (Titus 3:1-3 - 2 Thessalonians 3:14-15 - Luke 6:27-29). 
34 About the second and third epistles John. 
35 The author asks not to greet a person who is winding toward us with a different speech, and he adds that he does not want to expose the very useful things he has to convey, and he prefers speak mouth to mouth so that his joy is perfect.
36 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this doctrine, do not receive him into your house or greet him. For whoever greets him participates in his evil works. Although I have many things to write to you, I did not want to do it with paper and ink. But I hope to come to you and speak face to face so that our joy may be complete. The children of your chosen sister salute you (2 John 10-13). 
37 His goal, therefore, is not to explain the message of the gospel to everyone by testifying of what he has lived with the man Jesus. 
38 He also suggests that faith consists in not sharing anything with the Gentiles. 
39 For it was in the name of Jesus Christ that they went without receiving anything from the pagans. We must therefore welcome such men, in order to be workers with them for the truth (3 John 7-8). 
40 And yet it is not for us to know who will be called by God and when. 
41 About the book of the Revelation of John. 
42 The one who said that he is coming back into the world, he is the first born of creation who came into the world in the form of the man Jesus and who dwells in the world sitting at the right hand of his father.
43 He is neither the all-powerful nor the last. 
44 Behold he comes with the clouds. And every eye will see him, and those who pierced him. And all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Yes. Amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord. The one who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty (Revelation 1:7-8). Behold I come quickly, and my reward is with me, to render to every man according to his work. I am the alpha and the omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end (Revelation 22:12-13).
45 This author is an antichrist who wants the reader not to understand the scriptures of the gospels and apostles who make a clear distinction between God the Father and his only begotten Son, and also the scriptures of the prophet who say different things about the only begotten Son of God (Isaiah 28:16) and about God the Father (Isaiah 41:4 - 44:6 - 48:12).
