1 And Saul was in Jerusalem, and he was still overwhelmed by the desire to threaten the disciples of the Lord with death. 
2 And he went to the high priest to ask him for letters for the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any disciple of the new teaching, men or women, then he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
3 And as he was on his way and was getting closer to Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven shone around him. 
4 And he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me. 
5 And he answered, 'Who are you, Lord'. And the Lord said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. It would be hard for you to push against the prickles'. 
6 And Saul was trembling and was astonished, and he said, 'Lord, what do you want me to do'. And the Lord said to him, 'Get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do'. 
7 And the men who were with Saul were amazed. They heard the voice, but saw no one. 
8 And Saul got up from the ground. And although his eyes were opened, he could see nothing. Then they took him by the hand, and brought him to Damascus. 
9 And he remained blind for three days, and he neither ate nor drank. 
10 Now there was a certain disciple in Damascus whose name was Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, 'Ananias'. And he replied, 'I am here, Lord'. 
11 And the Lord said to him: Arise and go to the street called which is called Straight, and look in the house of Judas for one named Saul of Tarsus. 
12 For behold, he was praying, and he saw in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hands on him so that he might receive his sight. 
13 Then Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard from many people how much harm this man has done to your saints in Jerusalem. 
14 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all those who call on your name. 
15 And the Lord said to him: Go unto him. For this man is an instrument whom I have chosen to bear my name before the Gentiles, and the kings, and the children of Israel. 
16 And I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name.
17 And Ananias departed, and he came into the house, and he laid his hands on Saul and said: Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road while you was coming has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. 
18 And immediately something like fish scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. And he got up, and was baptized. 
19 And he took food and was strengthened. And he stayed some days with the disciples of Jesus who were in Damascus. 
20 And immediately he preached in the synagogues that Jesus is the Son of God. 
21 And all those who heard him were amazed, and said: Is not this the same man who persecuted those who called on this name in Jerusalem. And had he not come here to bring them bound before the chief priests. 
22 But Saul grew more and more in strength, and confounded the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, demonstrating that Jesus is the Christ. 
23 After many days were fulfilled, the Jews agreed to kill him. 
24 But their plot became known to Saul. Then they watched the gates day and night in order to kill him. 
25 But one night the disciples took him, and put him through the wall, and let him down in a basket by a rope. 
26 And when Saul came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples [of Jesus]. But they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 
27 Then Barnabas took Saul and brought him to the apostles. And he told them how on the road Saul had seen the Lord who spoke to him at that time, and how in Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
28 Then Saul stayed with the disciples [of Jesus], and went from place to place in Jerusalem to speak boldly in the name of the Lord. 
29 And he spoke and disputed with the Grecian Jews, but they were seeking to kill him. 
30 And when the brothers knew it, they brought him to Caesarea and from there they sent him to the city of Tarsus. 
31 Then the church enjoyed peace throughout all Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria. They were edified and walked in the fear of the Lord, and increased in number through the Holy Spirit. 
32 And it happened that Peter was visiting all the saints, and he also went down to those who were living in Lydda. 
33 And there he found a man named Aeneas, who had been lying on a bed for eight years because he was paralyzed. 
34 And Peter said to him, 'Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Get up and make your bed'. And he stood up immediately. 
35 And all the people of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and turned to the Lord. 
36 Now there was a woman in Joppa named Tabitha, a name which means Dorcas. She was a disciple, full of good works and giving a lot of alms. 
37 She became ill at that time and died. And they washed her, and laid her in an upper room. 
38 Now Lydda was near Joppa, and the disciples heard that Peter was there, and they sent two men to him, urging him to come to them immediately. 
39 And Peter got up and went with the them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper room. And all the widows surrounded him, weeping and showing the coats and garments that Dorcas had been making while she was with them. 
40 And Peter put everyone out, and knelt down, and prayed. Then he turned toward the body, and said, 'Tabitha, get up'. And she opened her eyes, and saw Peter, and sat up. 
41 And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up. Then he called the saints and the widows, and presented her alive to them. 
42 This thing became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 
43 And Peter stayed many days in Joppa with a tanner named Simon.
