1 And when we had escaped, then we knew that the island was called Melita. 
2 The barbarians showed us a great kindness. They gathered us all around a large fire, which they had lit because it was raining and it was very cold.
3 And when Paul gathered a pile of brushwood to put it on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat, and fastened itself on the hand of Paul. 
4 And when the barbarians saw venomous beast hanging from the hand of Paul, they said to one another: Surely this man is a murderer, since Justice refused to let him live after he has escaped from the sea. 
5 And Paul shook the viper into the fire, and felt no harm. 
6 And those people were expecting Paul to swell up or suddenly fall dead. But after having looked at him for a long time, and having seen no harm happening to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a God. 
7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us and lodged us for three days courteously. 
8 And father of Publius was then in bed, sick of a fever and of dysentery. And Paul went to him, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him.
9 After this had been done, the other sick people of the island came to Paul and were healed. 
10 And they honored us greatly. And when we boarded a ship to depart, they provided us with the things that we needed. 
11 We had stayed there for three months, we boarded a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island and whose ensign was Castor and Pollux. 
12 And when we arrived at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days. 
13 And from there, we followed the coast and arrived st Rhegium. And the south wind blew on the next day, and we arrived at Puteoli on the second day. 
14 And there we found some brothers [believers] who asked us to stay seven days with them. And after that we went to Rome. 
15 And the brothers [believers] in Rome heard about us and came to meet us at the Market of Appius and at the Three Taverns. And when Paul saw them, he gave thanks to God and took courage. 
16 And when we entered Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain general, but Paul was allowed to dwell by himself with a soldier who was guarding him. 
17 And after three days, Paul called together those who were the chief of the Jews. And when they had come together, he said to them: Brothers, although I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, nevertheless I have been delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans. 
18 And when they had examined me, they wanted to release me because there was nothing in me that deserved the death penalty. 
19 But the Jews opposed this, and I was constrained to appeal to Caesar [in order to escape from their hands], having no intention of accusing my nation.
20 That is why I have called for you, to see you and to speak with you. For it is because of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain. 
21 Then they said to him: We have not received any letters from Judea concerning you, and no brother has come to us to report or speak evil of you.
22 But we desire to hear from you what you think. For we know that this sect is fought everywhere. [That is to say, the sect of those who are disciples of a certain Jesus and who are interpreting the Jewish scriptures in a way that no one understands.] 
23 And when they had appointed him a day, they came to him into his lodging in great number. And Paul preached to them the kingdom of God, bearing witness and trying to persuade them, from the law of Moses and from the prophets, that Jesus is the hope of Israel. And they talked from morning until evening. 
24 And some were persuaded by the things that were spoken, but others did not believe. 
25 And as they did not agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had added the following words: It is with reason that the Holy Spirit, speaking to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet, has said the following thing. 
26 Go to this people and say: You will hear with your ears, but you will not understand. You will see with your eyes, but you will not perceive. 
27 For the heart of this people has grown fat. They have hardened their ears, and closed their eyes, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears. Lest they understand with their hearts, and convert, and I should heal them. 
28 Know therefore that this salvation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they will listen to it. 
29 And when Paul had spoken thus, the Jews departed, arguing fiercely among themselves.  
30 And Paul dwelt two whole years in a house rented for himself. 
31 And he received all those who came to him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with complete freedom and without hindrance.
