1 Peter and John were speaking to the people, and then the priests and the captain of [the guards of] the temple and the Sadducees came to them. 
2 And they were displeased by the fact that Peter and John were teaching the people and were proclaiming the resurrection from the dead in the name of Jesus. 
3 And they laid hands on them, and put them into prison until the next day. For it was already evening. 
4 However, many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the persons who were believers increased to about five thousand. 
5 And on the next day, the leaders of the people and the elders and the scribes gathered together in Jerusalem. 
6 And there was Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and all those who were of the lineage of the high priests. 
7 And when they had placed Peter and John before them, they asked: By what authority, or in whose name, have you done this thing. 
8 Then Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit and said to them: Rulers of the people and elders of Israel. 
9 Today we are being examined concerning a good deed done to an impotent man, in order to know how he has been healed. 
10 Let it be known to all of you, and to all the people of Israel. It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you have crucified and whom God has raised from the dead. It is by him that this man stands here in full health before you. 
11 This Jesus is the stone that has been rejected by you the builders, and that has become the head of the corner. 
12 For there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under the heaven that is given among men and by which we must be saved. 
13 And they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and knew that they were unlearned and ignorant men, and then they were amazed. And they recognized that Peter and John were some of those who had been with Jesus. 
14 And since the man who had been healed was standing with them, they had nothing to say against it. 
15 Then they ordered them to go aside out of the council, and they consulted among themselves. 
16 And they said: What will we do to these men. For it is clear to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem that a notable miracle has been performed by them, and we cannot deny it. 
17 But in order to prevent this matter from spreading among the people, we are going to order them sternly not to speak to anyone about this name [of Jesus] from now on. 
18 Then they called Peter and John, and strictly commanded them not to speak or teach in the name of Jesus. 
19 But Peter and John answered them by saying: Judge by yourself whether it is right in the sight of God to obey you rather than to obey God. 
20 For we cannot not speak about the [good] things that we have seen and heard. 
21 Then the Jewish leaders threatened them again and released them, not knowing how to punish them because of the people. For everyone was glorifying God for what had happened [that is to say, for the miracle that had happened]. 
22 For the man who had been miraculously healed was over forty years old. 
23 And when they had been released, they went to their company [of believers] and reported everything that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. 
24 And when they heard it, they lifted up their voices to God with one accord, and [one of them] said: O Lord, you are the God who has made the heaven and the earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them. 
25 And you said by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David, your servant: Why this tumult among the nations. Why do the people imagine vain things. 
26 The kings of the earth rise up, and the rulers of the peoples conspire with them against the Lord and against his Christ. 
27 And therefore Herod and Pontius Pilate have gathered together in this city with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, against your holy servant Jesus whom you have anointed. 
28 And they act in this way to accomplish all that your council has foreordained. 
29 And now, O Lord, consider their threats and grant your servants the ability to speak your word with all boldness. 
30 By stretching forth your hand to enable us to do healings, and signs, and wonders, through the name of your holy servant Jesus. 
31 And when they had prayed, the place where they had assembled shook, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. 
32 And the multitude of those who had believed were of one heart and of one soul. No one claimed that any of his possessions was his own, but they had everything in common. 
33 And the apostles testified with great power to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and a great grace was on them all. [That is to say, God granted to the twelve apostles the gift of performing miracles.] 
34 For there was no one among them who was in need. All those who owned fields or houses sold them, and brought the prices of what they had sold.
35 And they laid it at the feet of the apostles, and it was distributed to each one according to his need. 
36 And there was a certain Joseph who was called Barnabas by the apostles, which means Son of exhortation. He was a Levite from Cyprus. 
37 And he sold a field that he owned and brought the money, and laid it at the feet of the apostles.
