1 And Paul looked intently at the council and said: Brothers, I have behaved before God in all good conscience until this day. 
2 Then the high priest Ananias ordered those standing near Paul to smite him on the mouth. 
3 Then Paul said to him: God will smite you, you whitewashed wall. You sit to judge me according to the law, and you are breaking the law by ordering to hit me. 
4 And those who were standing near Paul said: You are insulting the high priest of God. 
5 And Paul said: I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest. For it is written, 'You will not speak evil of the rulers of your people'. 
6 And Paul perceived that there were Sadducees in a part of the assembly, and that there were Pharisees in another part. And then he cried out in the council: Brothers, I am a Pharisee and the son of a Pharisee. It is because of the hope in the resurrection of the dead that I am being judged. 
7 And when he had said this, a dispute arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided. 
8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, and that there is neither angel [who is distinct from God] nor spirit [which survives death], but the Pharisees affirm both. 
9 And there was a great uproar, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees stood up and began a heated argument by saying: We find no evil in this man. Perhaps a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God.
10 And when the discord increased, the commander of the Roman army feared that Paul might be torn to pieces by some of the Jews. Therefore he ordered the soldiers to come down and take Paul away from them, and bring him to the fortress. 
11 And the following night, the Lord appeared to Paul and said: Take courage. For just as you have testified about me in Jerusalem, you must also bear witness in Rome. 
12 And when daylight had come, the Jews formed a conspiracy and bound themselves under a curse, by saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul. 
13 And those who formed this conspiracy were more than forty men. 
14 And they went to the chief priests and elders, and said to them: We have bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will taste nothing until we have killed Paul. 
15 Now therefore, you and the council must ask the commander of the Roman army to bring Paul before you tomorrow, as if you have the desire to examine his case more thoroughly. We are ready to kill him before he comes near to you. 
16 But the son of the sister of Paul heard of the ambush that they had planned, and he went into the fortress and told Paul. 
17 And Paul called one of the centurions and said: Bring this young man to the commander of the Roman army. For he has something to tell him. 
18 So the centurion took the young man, and brought him to the commander of the Roman army, and said: Paul the prisoner has called me and has prayed me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to say to you. 
19 Then the commander of the Roman army took the young man by the hand, and went aside, and asked him privately: What do you have to tell me. 
20 And he answered: The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul before the council tomorrow, as if they were going to make a more detailed investigation about him. 
21 Do not listen to them, because more than forty of them are lying in wait for him. They have bound themselves under a curse, that they will taste nothing until they have killed Paul. And now they are ready, and are waiting only for your consent. 
22 Then the commander of the Roman army sent the young man away, after warning him not to tell anyone about the conversation that they had had. 
23 Then he called two of the centurions and said: Make ready two hundred soldiers, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred archers, to go to Caesarea at the third hour of the night. 
24 And let there be horses for Paul, so that he may be brought safely to Felix the governor. 
25 And he wrote a letter with the following words. 
26 Claudius Lysias to the very excellent governor Felix, greetings. 
27 This man had been seized by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them. And I came to them with soldiers and rescued him, perceiving that he was a Roman. 
28 And wishing to know the reason why they accused him, I brought him before their council. 
29 And I found that he was accused about the interpretations of their law, and that he had committed no crime worthy of death or imprisonment [regarding our law]. 
30 And when I was informed that the Jews were lying in wait for him, I immediately sent him to you, and I told his accusers to come before you to speak against him. Farewell. 
31 Then the soldiers took Paul, as they had been ordered, and led him away during the night to Antipatris. 
32 And the next day, they the horsemen continue with Paul to go to Caesarea, while the other soldiers returned to the fortress. 
33 And when they arrived at Caesarea, the horsemen delivered the letter to the governor and presented Paul before him. 
34 And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what province Paul was. 
35 And when he understood that Paul was of Cilicia, he said, 'I will hear you when your accusers come'. And he commanded to keep Paul in the palace of Herod.
