1 Now when it was decided that we should sail for Italy, Paul and some other prisoners were given to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan band. 
2 And we boarded a ship from the city of Adramyttium, which was about to sail to Asia. And we set sail, having with us Aristarchus a Macedonian from Thessalonica. 
3 And the next day we arrived at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly, and allowed him to go to his friends and refresh himself. 
4 And from there we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. 
5 And after crossing the sea that borders Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Myra a city of Lycia. 
6 And there, the centurion found a ship from Alexandria that was sailing for Italy, and he put us on board. 
7 And we sailed slowly many days, and reached the city of Cnidus with difficulty because the wind was blowing against us. Then we sailed under Crete, opposite Salmone. 
8 And we sailed along the coast, but the sailing was hard. Then we came to a place called Beautiful Harbors, near the city of Lasea. 
9 We had lost a lot of time, and it was now dangerous to sail. 
10 Therefore Paul said to them: Sirs, I see that this voyage will not be without hurt and great damage, not only to the cargo and to the ship, but also to our lives. 
11 But the centurion listened to the master and the owner of the ship, rather than to the words of Paul. 
12 And since that harbor was not suitable for wintering, most of the men agreed to leave it and try to reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete facing southwest and northwest, in order to winter there. 
13 And when the south wind began to blow softly, they assumed that the conditions were favorable to achieve their goals. And they raised the anchor and sailed close to the island of Crete. 
14 But soon after, a stormy wind called Euraquilo arose against the island.
15 And the ship was caught, and was unable to resist the wind, and we were adrift. 
16 And we passed below a small island called Clauda, and we were able to bring in the lifeboat but with difficulty. 
17 After hoisting it aboard, they tied ropes around the ship to hold it together. And the men were afraid that the ship would hit the sandbanks of Syrtis. So they lowered the sail and let the wind carry the ship. 
18 As we were being violently tossed by the storm, the next day they began to throw the cargo into the sea. 
19 And on the third day we threw out the equipment of the ship with our own hands. 
20 And when neither the sun nor the stars appeared for several days, and a rather severe storm was raging over us, all hope of salvation was then taken away from us. 
21 And after they had gone a long time without food, Paul stood in the midst of them and said: Sirs, you should have listened to me and not departed from Crete, in order to avoid this misfortune and loss. 
22 And now I urge you to have courage. For not one of you will perish, and there will be no loss except that of the ship. 
23 For an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve has appeared to me in the last night. 
24 And he has said to me: Do not be afraid, Paul. For you must stand before Caesar. And lo, God has given you all those who sail with you. 
25 Therefore, sirs, have a good courage. For I have confidence in God that it will be as I have been told. 
26 However, we must be thrown on a certain island. 
27 On the fourteenth night, as we were driven to and fro in the Adriatic sea, about midnight the sailors surmised that we were approaching land. 
28 And they sounded the depth of the waters with a plumbline, and found twenty fathoms. And when they had gone a little further, they sounded again and found fifteen fathoms. 
29 Then they were afraid of running into rocks. Therefore they threw four anchors from the stern, and waited impatiently for daylight.
30 But some of the sailors were trying to escape from the ship, and were lowering the lifeboat into the sea under the pretext of throwing more anchors from the foreship.
31 Then Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers: If these men do not stay in the ship, then you yourselves cannot be saved. 
32 Then the soldiers cut the ropes of the lifeboat, and let it fall. 
33 And at daybreak, Paul urged everyone to take food by saying: Today is the fourteenth day that you have been waiting and continuing to abstain from food. [Now this does not mean that they ate absolutely nothing, but that they ate almost nothing.] 
34 Therefore I beseech you to take food. For this is necessary for your safety, and not a hair from the head of any of you will perish. 
35 And when Paul had spoken thus, he took bread and gave thanks to God in front of them all, and broke it, and began to eat. 
36 And they all took courage, and they ate too. 
37 We were in total two hundred and seventy six souls in the ship. 
38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship by throwing the grain into the sea. 
39 And when the day came, they did not know what was the land that they were seeing. But when they saw a bay with a beach, they decided to sail the ship to the beach if they could. 
40 And they cut the ropes of the anchors to let them go in the sea, and at the same time they loosed the rudder bonds. Then they hoisted the foresail to the wind and headed for the beach. 
41 But they came to a place where two seas met, and they ran the ship aground. And the forepart struck and remained unmovable, but the hinderpart was broken by the violence of the waves. 
42 And the soldiers decided to kill the prisoners, lest any of them may swim away and escape. 
43 But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, prevented them from carrying out this plan. And he ordered those who could swim to jump into the water, and to swim to the land.
44 And he ordered the others to use either boards or broken pieces of the ship. And this is how they have all escaped safely to the land. [Now this includes Paul and also the narrator of the story.]
