1 In those days, Herod the king began to mistreat some of the church. 
2 And he killed James the brother of John with the sword. [That is to say, he ordered to kill him.] 
3 And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, then he also arrested Peter. It was during the days of unleavened bread. 
4 And when he had seized Peter and thrown him into prison [by the hand of his servants], he put Peter under the guard of four squads, each being made of four soldiers, with the intention of bringing him before the people after the Passover [that is to say, after the days of unleavened bread]. 
5 So Peter was kept in prison, and the church was praying to God without ceasing for him. 
6 And in the last night before the day when Herod should have brought him before the people, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and there were soldiers who were guarding the door of the prison. 
7 And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, and a light shone in the room. And the angel awakened Peter, striking him on the side and saying, 'Get up quickly'. And his chains fell off from his hands. 
8 And the angel said to him, 'Gird yourself and put your sandals'. And he did so. Then the angel said to him, 'Put on your coat and follow me'. 
9 And Peter went out and followed him, not knowing that this thing which was being done by the angel was real, but thinking that he was seeing a vision. 
10 And when they had passed a first and a second guard, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city and it opened to them by itself. And they went out, and went into a street, and immediately the angel departed from Peter. 
11 And when Peter came to himself, he said: Now I know for sure that the Lord has sent his angel and has delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews [who refuse to believe that Jesus has been sent by the God of Moses]. 
12 And after thinking about it, Peter went to the house of Mary, the mother of John who is surnamed Mark, where many people had gathered together to pray. 
13 And when Peter knocked at the outside door, a maid named Rhoda came to listen. 
14 And when she recognized the voice of Peter, she was overwhelmed with such a joy that she did not open the door and ran to tell in the house that Peter was standing at the door. 
15 And they said to her, 'You are mad'. But she confidently asserted that it was so. Then they said, 'It is his angel'. 
16 And Peter continued to knock. And when they opened the door, they were amazed to see him. 
17 And Pierre beckoned to them with his hand to be silent, and told them how the Lord had brought him out of prison. And he said, 'Tell these things to James and the brothers'. Then he departed and went to another place. 
18 And when it was day, there was great agitation among the soldiers, as to what had become of Peter. 
19 And when Herod sought Peter and found him not, he questioned the guards and ordered them to be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there. 
20 And Herod was very angry with the people from the cities of Tyre and Sidon. But these cities needed food from his country, so a group of them came to ask him for peace. They were able to get Blastus, the king’s personal servant, on their side. 
21 And Herod decided on a day to meet with them. On that day he was wearing a beautiful royal apparel, and he sat on his throne, and made an oration to the people. 
22 And the people cried out: This is the voice of a god, and not of a man. [And this pleased Herod, and he approved it.] 
23 And immediately an angel of the Lord smote him, because he had not given glory to God [and also because of all his other sins]. And he was eaten by worms inside his body, and he died.
24 And the word of God spread more and more, and the number of disciples increased. 
25 And Barnabas and Saul, when they had accomplished that for which they had come to Jerusalem, took with them John who was surnamed Mark and returned.
