1 When the trouble had ceased, Paul called the disciples together and exhorted them. Then he took leave of them, and departed for Macedonia. 
2 And when he had gone through those parts, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece. 
3 And he stayed three months there, and he was about to sail for Syria when the Jews laid wait for him. So he decided to return through Macedonia. 
4 He had with him as far as Asia: Sopater of Beroea, the son of Pyrrhus. And Aristarchus, and Secundus, who were from Thessalonica. And Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy. And two men who were from Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus. 
5 These men went ahead, and waited for us at Troas. 
6 As for us, we sailed from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and joined them at Troas after five days. And we stayed there seven days. [Now the Jewish feast of unleavened bread is mentioned here only as a time marker, and it is evident that Paul is not concerned with Jewish feasts since no particular works are described during this Passover period.] 
7 And on the first day of the week, when the disciples had gathered together to break bread, Paul preached to them and continued his discourse until midnight. His departure was scheduled for the next day.
8 And there were many lamps burning in the upper room where they had assembled. 
9 And a young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window, and he fell into a deep sleep while Paul was speaking. And as Paul spoke for a long time, the young man lost his balance during his sleep and fell from the third floor. And when people went down to help him, they found that he was dead. 
10 But Paul went down, bent over him and took him in his arms, and said: Do not be troubled, for his life is in him. 
11 Then Paul went back upstairs, and broke bread and ate, and talked for a long time until daybreak. Then he departed. 
12 So the young man was brought back alive, and this was a great consolation. 
13 And we went before Paul to the ship, and sailed for Assos. We had agreed to take Paul there, because he had decided so, having wanted to make this part of the journey on foot. 
14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene. 
15 From there, continuing by sea, we arrived the next day opposite Chios. And the next day, we arrived at Samos and stayed at Trogyllion. And the next day, we arrived at Miletus. 
16 For Paul had decided to pass by Ephesus without stopping there, so as not to spend time in Asia. For he was hastening in order to be at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost, if possible. 
17 But when we were at Miletus, Paul sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. 
18 And when they had come to Paul, he said to them: You know how I have behaved among you from the first day that I set foot in Asia. 
19 I have served the Lord without arrogance, and with many tears in the midst of the trials which were imposed on me through the plots of the Jews. 
20 You know that I have not hidden anything that could be useful to you.
21 And I have taught you publicly and from house to house, proclaiming to both Jews and Greeks repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. 
22 And now, being bound by the Spirit, I am going to Jerusalem without knowing what will happen to me there. 
23 However, the Holy Spirit warns me in every city that bonds and afflictions await me. 
24 And I am not concerned about the quality or the duration of my life, but by the desire to have the satisfaction of having done what is right. My mission is to proclaim the gospel of the grace of God which I have received from the Lord Jesus. 
25 And now behold, I know that you will no longer see my face, all of you who dwell in the places where I have gone to preach the kingdom of God. 
26 Therefore I declare to you today that I am pure from the blood of all of you. 
27 For I have announced to you all the counsel of God, without hiding anything. 
28 Take heed therefore to yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, in order to nourish with the knowledge of the Lord the church that he has purchased with his own blood. 
29 I know that cruel wolves will come among you after my departure, and they will not spare the flock. 
30 And even from among yourselves there will arise men who will teach perverse things, in order to drag away the disciples after themselves. 
31 Therefore keep watch, and remember that during three years I have not ceased night and day to exhort each one of you with tears. 
32 And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, to him who is able to build you up in order to give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. 
33 I have not coveted anyone's possessions, whether silver, or gold, or clothing. 
34 You yourselves know that these hands have supplied to my own needs and to the needs of those who were with me [while I was with you]. 
35 I have shown you in all things that you should work in this way and support the weak, remembering the words of the Lord Jesus who himself said: There is more happiness in giving than in receiving. 
36 And when Paul had spoken thus, he knelt down and prayed with them all. 
37 Then they all wept profusely, and fell on the neck of Paul and kissed him. 
38 They were especially grieved by the fact that Paul had said that they will never see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship. 
