1 Now there were prophets and teachers in the church at Antioch: Barnabas, and Simeon called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen who had grown up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. 
2 And while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said: Separate Barnabas and Saul for me, for the work to which I have called them. 
3 And when they finished fasting and praying, they laid their hands on Barnabas and Saul and let them go. [It has already happened before that two apostles have laid their hands on people who had the desire to understand the faith and who had already been baptized, and it was in order to transmit to them through physical contact the Holy Spirit which is the knowledge of faith. Here Paul and Barnabas are two people who already possess the Holy Spirit, and their brothers in the faith have laid their hands on Paul and Barnabas to testify that the Holy Spirit has spoken to them and has asked them to entrust a particular mission to these two people.] 
4 So Barnabas and Saul, being sent forth by the Holy Spirit, went to Seleucia. And from there they sailed to the island of Cyprus. 
5 And when they arrived at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John [who was surnamed Mark] as their helper. 
6 And when they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet who was Jew and whose name was Bar-Jesus. 
7 He always stayed close to the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. And the proconsul summoned Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God. 
8 But Elymas the sorcerer, this is the interpretation of his name, resisted them and sought to turn the proconsul away from the faith. 
9 Then Saul, who is also called Paul, being full of the Holy Spirit, looked at him fixedly and spoke the following words. 
10 O man full of all guile and all villainy, son of the devil, enemy of all righteousness. Will you not cease to pervert the straight ways of the Lord. 
11 And now, behold the hand of the Lord is on you. You will be blind for a certain time, you will not be able to see the sunlight. 
12 And immediately everything became dark for Elymas, and he groped for people to lead him by the hand. And when the proconsul saw what had happened, he believed and was astonished at the doctrine of the Lord. 
13 Now Paul and his companions left Paphos by a ship, and they came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John [who was surnamed Mark] left them and returned to Jerusalem. 
14 And from Perga they continued their journey and came to Antioch of Pisidia. And they entered the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down. 
15 And after the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent messages to them by saying: Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, then speak. 
16 Then Paul stood up, and beckoned with his hand, and said: Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen. 
17 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt in the land of Egypt, and brought them out with a high arm. 
18 And for about forty years, he has suffered their manners in the wilderness. 
19 And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan [by the hand of our fathers], he divided their land to our fathers by lot.
20 And after those things, during a period of about four hundred and fifty years, he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. 
21 Then they asked for a king. And God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, during twenty years. 
22 And when God had removed Saul, he raised up David to be their king and gave this testimony: I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will. 
23 And according to his promise, God has raised up from the seed of David a savior for Israel, namely Jesus. 
24 And before his coming, John had preached the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. [Now the person who was baptized was committing to no longer willingly and publicly unjustifiably cause any harm to anyone, after having acknowledged to the victims the unjustifiable offenses committed in the past. For the law of the Lord given to Moses indicates that forgiveness for a sin committed by offending someone else is obtained by interacting with the victim to acknowledge the wicked deed that has been done, and the law adds that this must be done in the presence of a priest who is by definition a descendant of Aaron, and John absolutely does not call into question the law of Moses. For what John asks the people is not to seek to do good only according to the quantities prescribed in the law, but to take personal initiatives for well being to others.] 
25 And when John was fulfilling his course, he said: I am not the one whom you think that I am. But behold, after me comes one whose shoes I am not worthy to untie. 
26 Brothers, children of the generation of Abraham, and you who fear God, it is to us that this message of salvation has been sent. 
27 For the inhabitants of Jerusalem and their leaders did not recognize Jesus. They did not recognize the voices of the prophets which are read every sabbath, and which they have fulfilled by condemning him. 
28 Even though they found nothing worthy of death in him, they asked Pilate to put him to death. 
29 And when they had fulfilled everything written about him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb. 
30 But God raised him from the dead. 
31 And he appeared for many days to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people. 
32 And we declare to you that, concerning the promise made to the fathers, God has fulfilled it for us their children, by raising up Jesus. 
33 As it is written in the second Psalm: You are my son, I have begotten you today. 
34 And concerning the fact that he had to raise Jesus up from the dead, so that Jesus will not return to corruption, he had declared it by saying: I will give you the holy graces promised to David, the sure graces. 
35 Therefore he has said also in another psalm: You will not suffer your holy one to see corruption. 
36 Now David served by obeying the counsel of God throughout his entire life, and then he died was gathered to his fathers, and saw corruption.
37 But the one whom God has raised up from the dead has not seen corruption. 
38 Know therefore, brothers and sisters, that it is through this man that the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. 
39 And everyone who believes in his message is justified in all things in which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. 
40 Beware therefore, lest it happens to you the following thing which is spoken of in the prophets. 
41 Look at this, you who are despisers, and be amazed, and disappear. For I work a work in your days, a work of which you will not believe that it had to be done if someone explain the goal to achieve to you. 
42 And when Paul and Barnabas were leaving the synagogue of the Jews, the Gentiles who were in the synagogue seeking to understand God besought the apostles of Christ to return to them on the next sabbath day in order to teach them these words. 
43 And when the synagogue had closed, many of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas. And the apostles of Christ conversed with them and urged them to continue in the grace of God. 
44 And on the next sabbath day, almost the entire city had gathered together to hear the word of God. 
45 And when those of the Jews who refuses to believe that the message of the apostles comes from the God of Moses saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy. And they opposed what Paul was saying, by shouting insults and arguing against him. 
46 Then Paul and Barnabas said to them boldly: It was necessary that the word of God should have been spoken to you first. But since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we now turn to the Gentiles. 
47 For thus has the Lord commanded us [when he had spoken about Christ by the mouth of the prophet Isaiah]: I have set you to be a light to the nations, to bring salvation to the ends of the earth. 
48 And when the Gentiles heard it, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And all those who were destined for eternal life believed. 
49 And the word of the Lord did spread throughout the whole region. 
50 But the Jews stirred up the devout and honorable women, and the leaders of the the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region. 
51 And Paul and Barnabas shook the dust off their feet against them, and went to Iconium. 
52 While the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Spirit.
