1 And while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul came to Ephesus after having passed through the upper coasts.  
2 And it happened that Paul found certain disciples at Ephesus and said to them, 'Have you received the Holy Spirit when you have believed'. And they said to him, 'We have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit'. [Now in those days there are not yet many intermediaries between the author of the message of the gospel and the receivers, and this may explain that certain gifts are received at the moment when a disciple understands exactly what he must do. For there are superficial understanding as it appears to be the case for these disciples whom Paul have met.] 
3 Then Paul said to them: What baptism have you received. And they said. 'The baptism of John'. [Now we remember that in the previous story Apollos arrived at Ephesus knowing only the baptism of John, that he was informed of certain subtleties of the message of Jesus by Aquila and Priscilla, and it was from that moment that he began to demonstrate to other Jews that the message transmitted by Jesus made him the Christ announced by the Jewish scriptures.] 
4 Then Paul said: John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe in [message of] the one who should come after him, that is to say, in Jesus Christ. 
5 And when they heard it, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
6 And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in other languages, ​​and prophesied. 
7 The number of those persons was about twelve. 
8 Then Paul entered the synagogue, and spoke freely during three months, discussing the things concerning the kingdom of God and trying to persuade those who listened to him. [Now Paul knows the definition of faith, that is to say, how a disciple should behave, but he does not know the exact definition of eternal life.] 
9 But some of them hardened their hearts and refused to believe [because they considered it abnormal to worship God without performing specific rituals], and they were speaking evil of the way before the multitude [namely the way that was taught by Paul]. Then Paul withdrew from them, and separated the disciples from them, and taught the disciples every day in the school of a man named Tyrannus. 
10 And it continued for two years, so that all those who dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. 
11 And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul. 
12 To the extent that the linen or handkerchiefs that had touched his body were brought to the sick, and it healed them and made the evil spirits come out of them. 
13 Then some of the wandering Jews wanted to become exorcists, and they took the initiative to invoke the name of Lord Jesus on those who had evil spirits. And they said to a man who was possessed by an evil spirit: We command you by Jesus whom Paul preaches. 
14 Those who did this were seven sons of a man named Sceva, a Jew who was one of the chief priests. 
15 And the evil spirit answered and said to them: I know Jesus, and I know who is Paul. But you, who are you. 
16 And the man in whom was the evil spirit rushed on them, and overcame them, and did beat them, and they fled from that house naked and wounded. 
17 And this thing had been known to all the Jews and all the Greeks who dwelt at Ephesus, and fear seized them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was glorified. 
18 And many of those who had believed came to confess and declare the wicked deeds that they had done. 
19 And a number of those who practiced the magical arts brought their books and burned them in the sight of all. The value was estimated at fifty thousand pieces of silver. 
20 So the word of the Lord was growing in power and strength. 
21 After these things had happened, Paul purposed to go to Jerusalem, crossing Macedonia and Achaia. And he said: When I have been there, I must also visit Rome. 
22 And he sent to Macedonia two of those who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, and he himself stayed in Asia for some time. 
23 At that time, there arose a great trouble concerning the way of the Lord. 
24 For there was a certain man named Demetrius who was a silversmith, and who made silver objects for the temple of the goddess Diana. It was an occupation that allowed artisans to have work and thus earn money. 
25 And he gathered together those artisans, with the workers who had similar occupations, and said: Sirs, you know that our well-being depends on this business. 
26 And you see and hear that, not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away much people by saying that the gods made by human hands are not gods. 
27 The danger from this is not only that our business will fall into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana will lose its worshippers, and the majesty of her who is revered throughout Asia and throughout the world will be reduced to nothingness. 
28 And when they heard those words, they were filled with anger and they began to shout: Great is Diana of the Ephesians. 
29 And the whole city was in confusion. And they rushed together into the stadium, having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia and companions of Paul in travel. 
30 And Paul wanted to go and present himself before the crowd [in order to speak to them], but the disciples prevented him. 
31 Also, some leaders of the country who were friends of Paul sent him a message telling him not to go into the stadium. 
32 Some people were shouting one thing, some others were shouting something else. For the assembly was in a state of confusion, and most of the people did not know why they had come together. 
33 And some Jews made a man named Alexander stand before the crowd, after telling him what he had to say. Alexander beckoned with his hand, and wanted to speak to the people. 
34 But when they perceived that he was a Jew, they all shouted with one voice for about two hours: Great is Diana of the Ephesians. 
35 And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said: Men of Ephesus, who is there who does not know that the city of Ephesus is the guardian of the temple of the great Diana and of her image that fell down from Jupiter. 
36 Since it is a fact that no one can dispute, you ought to calm down and to do nothing rashly. 
37 For you have brought here these men who are guilty of neither sacrilege nor blasphemy against our goddess. 
38 Now therefore, if Demetrius and his craftsmen have a complaint against anyone, there are courts of law and proconsuls. Let them sue each other. 
39 But if you have other matters in mind, then it will be resolved in a lawful assembly. 
40 And now, we risk being accused of sedition for what has happened today. For there is no reason for us to gather together now. 
41 And when he had spoken thus, he dismissed the assembly.
