1 And some men came to Antioch from Judea, and they were teaching the brothers by saying: Unless you are circumcised according to the custom taught by Moses, you cannot be saved. [Now when Abraham was ninety nine years old, and his son was Ishmael was thirteen years old, God had made a covenant with him by asking him to circumcise at eight days old all the males under his care, from generation to generation, and Abraham had circumcised all the people of his household on that day. But the exact account of the origin of this covenant and the exact content of the commandment comes from Moses who wrote the book of Genesis at the dictation of an angel of God, and this happened hundreds of years after the death of Abraham.] 
2 Then Paul and Barnabas had a great discussion and a great dissension with them. And the brothers decided that Paul and Barnabas, and some others, should go up to Jerusalem in order to discuss this matter with the apostles and elders. [Paul and Barnabas were previously called apostles, but Paul did not walk alongside Jesus in the flesh and was converted later through a vision that he had, and Barnabas is simply a person who received a good understanding of how to put into practice the teachings of Jesus Christ and is therefore filled with the holy spirit.] 
3 Then the Church helped them prepare to go on their journey, and they continued their journey through Phoenicia and Samaria, reporting the conversion of the Gentiles and thus causing a great joy to all the brothers [that is to say, to all the Jews who were already disciples of Jesus]. 
4 And when they arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and by the apostles and the elders, and they reported all the things that God had used them to do. [Now they have also explained the reason for their coming, that is to say, they have explained that there has arisen a discussion in Antioch because certain people have declared the following: Non-Jews who believe in the message taught by Jesus must practice circumcision which is prescribed in the book of Genesis written by Moses, if they want to be saved by forming a single community with the Jews who believe in the message taught by Jesus.]
5 But among those who listened to the report given by Paul and his companions, there were some men of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed in the message of Jesus and who stood up and said: The Gentiles should be circumcised and should be required to observe the law of Moses. [Now the Pharisees are a group of people who claim to distinguish themselves by a strict observance of the law. And some of them have recognized that Jesus Christ was a prophet sent by the God of Moses, because of the events that occurred during and after his life and of which they had knowledge. But claiming to believe in Jesus does not mean having understood the exact content of the teaching of Jesus, since even the apostles who walked alongside Jesus during his life had believed in him before his crucifixion and it was only after his resurrection and departure that they received a good understanding of the meaning of his teaching. But the only thing that Jesus commanded his disciples is that everyone must love his neighbor as oneself, and the temple of God is still present in Jerusalem, and that is why these Pharisees who must be young people have said this thing. But these Pharisees in particular have not yet understood certain things that the apostles and other people have already understood, that is to say that the law of Moses which describes particular rituals to be done by the descendants and Aaron and the whole tribe of Levi cannot continue to exist without alteration, since they must no longer intervene in the forgiveness of sins that a person commits by harming another person, since Jesus said the following to the apostles after his resurrection and before his ascension to heaven: Receive the Holy Spirit. Those to whom you will forgive sins, they will be forgiven. And those to whom you will not forgive sins, those sins will not be forgiven.] 
6 Then the apostles and elders gathered together to consider this matter. 
7 And after much argument, Peter stood up and said to them: Brothers, you know that God had chosen me among us a long time ago, so that the Gentiles may hear the word of the gospel from my mouth and believe. [For I had explained to you how the Holy Spirit had asked me to go and explain the message of the gospel in the house of a Roman officer named Cornelius who had sent messengers to seek me.] 
8 And God who knows the hearts had borne witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he had done to us. [That is to say, we had observed the occurrence of the same sign.] 
9 So God had made no distinction between us and them, having purified their hearts through faith. [That is to say, their hearts had been purified after my speech had allowed them to understand that the only thing that matters to God is the faith in Jesus Christ, the faith in the power of the commandment given by Jesus Christ.] 
10 Why do you want to offend God now by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples [in addition to the unique commandment of Christ], a yoke that neither our fathers nor we were able to bear. 
11 For we believe that we will be saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus, and they can be saved in the same way as us. 
12 Then the whole assembly remained silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul who were recounting all the signs and wonders that God had performed among the Gentiles by them. 
13 And when they had finished speaking, James answered and said: Brothers, listen to me.
14 Simon Peter has reminded us today how God had showed his love for the Gentiles who had believed in the gospel, when he saw for the first time that God has caused them to become like the people who bear his name [that is to say, like the Jews who believe that Jesus is the Christ of God]. 
15 And this is in accordance with the words of the prophets, as the following thing is written. 
16 After these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David that has fallen down. I will rebuild its ruins, and I will set it up. 
17 So that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, those who are of all the nations and who are called by my name. [Now it is the end of the book of the prophet Amos which is quoted here.]
18 Says the Lord, who does these things and to whom they have been known from eternity. 
19 Therefore my opinion is that we should not trouble those who turn to God from among the Gentiles. 
20 But we should write to them to abstain from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and what is strangled, and from blood. 
21 For Moses has had people who preach him in every city for generations, since he is read in the synagogues every sabbath day. 
22 Then it seemed good to the apostles, and to the elders, and to the whole church, to choose men from among them in order to send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. And they chose Judas called Barsabas, and Silas, men respected among the brothers. 
23 And they sent those men with a letter which had the following words: The apostles, and the elders, and the brothers, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, and in Syria, and in Cilicia, greeting. 
24 We have heard that certain men have gone out from us and have come to you, to trouble you with words and corrupt your faith, telling you that you must circumcise yourselves and even observe the law. We did not give them such instructions. 
25 After discussing and agreeing on it, we have decided to choose delegates and send them to you. 
26 And they will come to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
27 So we have sent Judas and Silas, who will declare the same things to you by mouth. 
28 It has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us, to lay on you no greater burden than the following things which are necessary [besides the holy commandment of our Lord Jesus Christ]. 
29 You should abstain from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication. You will do well if you keep yourselves from these things. Farewell. 
30 And they leave the church at Jerusalem, and went to Antioch. And they gathered the group of believers there, and gave them the letter. 
31 And when they had read it, the people rejoiced for the encouragement that the letter had given them. 
32 And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, exhorted and strengthened them with many other words. 
33 And after they had stayed there some time, the believers did let them go back in peace to the church at Jerusalem. 
34 But it seemed good to Silas to stay there. 
35 And Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord. And many other believers were doing the same. 
36 And after some days, Paul said to Barnabas: Let us return and visit the brothers in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord, in order to see how they are doing. 
37 And Barnabas wanted to take with them John who was surnamed Mark. 
38 But Paul thought it more fitting not to take with them the one who had left them from Pamphylia, and who had not accompanied them in their work. 
39 And the disagreement was so important between them that they separated from each other. And Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed to the island of Cyprus. 
40 And Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended by the brothers to the grace of God. 
41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
