1 Now the apostles and the brothers [disciples] who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God. 
2 And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, the circumcised believers [namely the Jews] rebuked him. 
3 They said: You have gone inside a house of the uncircumcised [namely the non-Jews] and have eaten with them. 
4 Then Peter began to expound the thing in order to them, and said the following thing. 
5 I was in the city of Joppa, and while I was praying, I fell into a trance and had a vision. Something like a large sheet tied at its four corners came down from heaven, and came to me. 
6 And I looked at it fixedly, and considered it, and I saw the four-footed beasts of the earth, and the wild beasts, and creeping things, and the birds of the air. 
7 And I heard a voice saying to me: Rise, Peter. Kill and eat. 
8 And I said: Not so, Lord. For nothing polluted or unclean has ever entered my mouth. 
9 But the voice answered me the second time out of heaven: What God has cleansed, do not call it unclean. 
10 And this happened three times, and everything was taken up into heaven. 
11 And behold, immediately there were three men who were standing at the door of the house where I was. They had been sent from Caesarea to me. 
12 And the Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. And these six brothers who are here went with me, and we entered the house of that man. 
13 And he told us how he had seen an angel who stood in his house and said to him: Send to Joppa, and call for Simon who is surnamed Peter. 
14 He will tell you things by which you and your entire household will be saved. 
15 And after I began speaking, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as he had come on us at the beginning. 
16 And I remembered the following word of the Lord: John has baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. 
17 Since God had given them the same gift as he had given to us who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, could I then resist God. 
18 And when they heard these things, they calmed down and glorified God by saying: So God has granted repentance to the Gentiles also, so that they may have life. [It appears here that the Jews are completely ignorant of the exact definition of eternal life and the exact meaning of the words of Jesus who said that the kingdom of God is among us and also that he himself is alive. The only thing that is known by these Jews who are disciples of Jesus is that they must obey the commandment of Jesus in order to have access to the eternal life where Samuel the prophet and Saul the first king of Israel are located. After the death of Samuel his spirit had been invoked by Saul who himself died shortly after that event. So the Jews already know that people are not in the same place in eternal life since Saul cannot be as loved as Samuel the prophet or Jesus the son of God, and now some of them have just understood that the place where the Jews will be in eternal life is not different from the place where the non-Jews will be.] 
19 Now the disciples who had been scattered at the time of the persecution that had arisen when Stephen was killed went as far as Phoenicia, and Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word only to the Jews. 
20 However, among those disciples there were some men of Cyprus and of Cyrene who went to Antioch and spoke to the Greeks also, in order to preach to them the good news of the Lord Jesus. 
21 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. 
22 And the report concerning those things came to the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. 
23 And when he came there, he saw the grace of God and was glad. And he urged them all to remain steadfast in the Lord. 
24 For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great number of people joined the Lord. 
25 Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to seek Saul. 
26 And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And during a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people. And it was in Antioch that the disciples were called Christians for the first time. 
27 In those days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
28 And one of them, whose name was Agabus, stood up and announced by the Spirit that there should be a great famine throughout all the world. And this occurred at the time of the reign of Claudius Caesar. 
29 Then the disciples decided to send relief, each according to his ability, to the brothers who dwelt in Judea. 
30 And they sent it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
