1 Then Agrippa said to Paul, 'You are allowed to speak in your defense'. And Paul stretched out his hand, and began to speak with the following words. 
2 I consider myself happy, king Agrippa, for the fact that I can speak before you today concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews. 
3 For you have a good knowledge of all their customs, and of the matters that concern the Jews. Therefore I beseech you to listen to me patiently. 
4 My life has been known to all the Jews, since the early days of my youth. For I have grown up at Jerusalem, among my own people. 
5 They know that I have lived for a long time as a Pharisee, according to the most rigid sect of our religion. They can declare it to you. 
6 And now I stand here to be judged because of my hope for the fulfilment of the promise that God made to our fathers. 
7 This promise is the reason for the existence of our twelve tribes, who continually serve God day and night with the desire to please him. It is for this hope that I am accused by the Jews, O king. 
8 Why should you think that it is impossible for God to raise the dead. [Unlike some other disciples of Jesus, such as the apostle Peter whose understanding was gradual, Paul has reached a great level of understanding of the faith in Jesus from the moment of his conversion. Paul knows that there exists a unique eternal life where there is no distinction between Jews and non-Jews, and where Jesus is currently located. No one in those days knows the exact definition of this eternal life which some disciples of Jesus imagined to be a place where Jews are separated from non-Jews, but they know that the only way to access it is to love one’s neighbor as oneself. One must want the good of others in all the things that are done, and nothing should be done in a publicly unjustifiable way. But the fact that the temple of God continues to exist prevents some followers of Jesus from having a better understanding of the faith.] 
9 As for me, I had deemed it necessary to do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
10 This is what I did in Jerusalem where I imprisoned many of the saints, having received this authority from the chief priests. And whenever they were being put to death, I gave my approval with the others. 
11 And I often punished them in all the synagogues, and compelled them to blaspheme. In my fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. 
12 And I went to Damascus for this purpose, with the authority and commission of the chief priests. 
13 And at midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven which was shining around me and those with me. It was brighter than the sun. 
14 And we all fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me. It would be hard for you to push against the prickles. 
15 Then I said, 'Who are you, Lord'. And he said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting'. 
16 And now, get up and stand on your feet. For I have appeared to you in order to appoint you as a minister and a witness of the things that you have seen and of the things in which I will appear to you. 
17 I have chosen you from among this people, and from among the Gentiles to whom I am sending you. 
18 So that you may open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God. So that they may receive, through faith in me, forgiveness of sins and inheritance among those who are sanctified. 
19 Therefore, king Agrippa, I have not been disobedient to the heavenly vision. 
20 First to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all Judea, and among the Gentiles, I have preached repentance and conversion to God which the disciple must manifest through works worthy of repentance. 
21 That is why the Jews have seized me in the temple and tried to kill me. [Indeed, James asked Paul to go to the temple of God and behave in a way that conforms to the law given by Moses to the children of Jacob, so as not to create a tumult in the crowds. And Paul obeyed because the teaching of Jesus consists of not being interested in what a person does but only in the reasons why that person does something.] 
22 But I have survived to this day thanks to the help of God, bearing witness to both small and great, without departing from what the prophets and Moses foretold. 
23 For it is written that Christ should suffer, and being the first to rise from the dead [and ascend into heaven after that], he should proclaim light to this people and to the Gentiles. 
24 And when Paul had spoken thus in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice: You are mad, Paul. Your great learning has made you mad. 
25 And Paul replied: I am not mad, very excellent Festus. On the contrary, I speak the words of truth and of common sense. 
26 For the king knows of these things, and I can explain them to him clearly. For I am convinced that none of these things are hidden from him, since they did not happen in secret. 
27 Do you believe in the writings of the prophets, king Agrippa. I know that you believe. 
28 Then Agrippa said to Paul: You will soon want to persuade me to become a Christian. 
29 And Paul said: Whether it is soon or later, I pray to God to grant that not only you, but also all those who are listening to me today, you may become such as I am, except for these bonds. 
30 And when Paul had spoken thus, the king stood up, and Festus the governor, and Bernice, and all those who had sat with them. 
31 And when they had left, they said to one another: This man has done nothing worthy of death or imprisonment. 
32 And Agrippa said to Festus: This man might have been released, if he had not appealed to Caesar.
