1 And when Festus arrived in the province, three days later he went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem. 
2 Then the high priest and the leaders of the Jews came before him to complain about Paul. 
3 And they besought Festus to order to bring Paul at Jerusalem. They intended to prepare an ambush to kill Paul on the way. 
4 But Festus replied that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would soon leave Jerusalem. 
5 And Festus said: Let the leaders among you come down with me. And if there is any wickedness in that man, then let them accuse him there. 
6 And Festus stayed with them only eight or ten days, and he went down to Caesarea. And the day after his arrival, he sat on the judgment seat and commanded Paul to be brought. 
7 And when Paul had come, the Jews who had come from Jerusalem surrounded him and spoke many serious accusations against him, despite the fact that they were unable to prove what they were saying. 
8 And Paul defended himself by saying: I have committed nothing wrong, neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar. 
9 And Festus had the desire to please the Jews, and therefore he answered Paul and said: Do you want to go up to Jerusalem and be judged there before me concerning these things. [Now the persecution against the disciples of Jesus was intense in Jerusalem at the time of the conversion of Paul, and shortly after there was a certain calm. But it was many years ago, and new generations of Jews have become adults and are zealous for the law of Moses. And some Jews attack Paul when he preached the exact content of his message in foreign notions where some Jews live, and the resistance should be even stronger in Jerusalem where the temple of the Jews is located.] 
10 Then Paul said: I am standing before the judgment seat of [a representative of] Caesar, where I ought to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you know very well. 
11 If I have committed any wrong that is a crime worthy of death, then I do not refuse to die. But if the things they accuse me of are false, then no one has the right to give me to them. I appeal to Caesar. 
12 Then Festus consulted the council, and after that he answered and said: You have appealed to Caesar, you will go before Caesar. 
13 And a few days later, king Agrippa and Bernice came to Caesarea in order to salute Festus. [Now king Agrippa reigns over the territory of Judea, and this territory is under the authority of the Roman empire rule by Caesar.] 
14 And when they had stayed there for several days, Festus declared the cause of Paul to the king with the following words. 
15 There is a certain prisoner whom Felix left in prison before I succeeded him as governor. And while I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews complained about that man and demanded his condemnation. 
16 And I told them that it is not the custom of the Romans to condemn a man until the accused has been brought before his accusers face to face, and has had the opportunity to defend himself regarding the things that are reproached to him. 
17 And when I had returned here, I did not delay. I sat down the next day on the judgment seat, and I commanded the man to be brought. 
18 And when the accusers stood up, they did not accuse him of any of the things that I had supposed. 
19 They were arguing with him about their own superstition, and about a certain Jesus who had died and whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
20 Not knowing what to do in this dispute, I have asked him if he wanted to go to Jerusalem and be judged there concerning these things. 
21 But after Paul asked to be kept for the decision of Augustus, I commanded to keep him until I send him to Caesar. 
22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, 'I also want to listen to that man'. And Festus replied, 'Tomorrow you will hear him'. 
23 And on the next day, Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp. And they entered the place of audience with the commanders of the army and the leaders of the city, and Paul was brought in at the command of Festus. 
24 Then Festus said: King Agrippa, and all of you who are present with us, you see this man about whom the whole multitude of the Jews have complained to me, both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he should not be left alive any longer. 
25 As for me, I have not discovered that he has committed a crime that is worthy of being punished by the death penalty. And since he himself has appealed to Augustus, I have decided to send him there. 
26 And now, I have nothing certain to write to my lord the emperor about this man. Therefore I have brought him before you all, and especially before you, king Agrippa, so that I may know what to write after he has been examined. 
27 Indeed, it seems unreasonable to me to send him a prisoner without telling him the facts with which that prisoner is accused.
