1 Brothers and fathers, listen to what I have to say now in my defense. 
2 And when they heard that he was speaking to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more silent. 
3 Then Paul said: I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel. And I have been instructed in the exact knowledge of the law of the fathers, being full of zeal for God just as you all are today. 
4 And I persecuted this new doctrine to the death, binding and imprisoning both men and women. 
5 The high priest and the whole company of the elders can attest to this. And I received letters from them for the brothers in Damascus, where I was going in order to bring the disciples who were there bound to Jerusalem and have them punished. 
6 And as I was on my way and approaching Damascus, suddenly, about noon, a great light from heaven shone around me. 
7 And I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me. 
8 And I answered, 'Who are you, Lord'. And he said to me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting'. 
9 And those who were with me saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one who spoke to me. [Now this detail that Paul gives is not of the greatest importance at this precise moment when he is in a stressful situation and wants to explain how he became a disciple of the new faith. He can be mistaken about this detail, without intending to lie.] 
10 Then I said, 'What should I do, Lord'. And the Lord said to me, 'Get up and go into Damascus, and there it will be told you what you must do'. 
11 And when I could not see anything because of the glory of that light, those who were with me took me by the hand and led me to Damascus. 
12 And there was a man named Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well-regarded by all the Jews who dwelt in Damascus. 
13 And he came and stood before me, and said, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight'. And immediately I received my sight, and looked at him. 
14 And he said: The God of our fathers has appointed you to know his will, and to see the righteous one, and to hear the voice of his mouth. 
15 For you will be his witness before all men, concerning the things that you have seen and heard. 
16 And now, why are you waiting. Get up and be baptized [to publicly commit yourself in our eyes to follow Jesus], and be washed from your sins by calling on the name of the Lord [that is to say, by continually acting only according to his one commandment]. 
17 And when I returned to Jerusalem, while I was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance. 
18 And I saw the Lord saying to me: Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me. [Now Paul does not only declare that the non-Jews do not need the practices of the law of Moses to be saved, but he also declares that it is something superfluous for the Jews even if the temple of God is always present in Jerusalem. The apostles Peter and John have already been of this opinion for some time, but James does not think that the rituals of the law are superfluous for a Jew. Nevertheless a harmony subsists between them because of the command of Jesus and the presence of the temple of God which has not yet destroyed.] 
19 Then I said: Lord, they themselves know that I imprisoned and whipped the people who believed in you in every synagogue. 
20 And when the blood of your witness Stephen was shed, I myself was standing there, agreeing with the others and keeping the garments of those who were killing him. 
21 Then the Lord said to me: Depart. For I will send you far away to the Gentiles. 
22 And the crowd listened to Paul until he said this word. Then they lifted up their voices and said: Remove such a person from the earth. For he is not worthy to live. 
23 And they shouted, and took off their clothes, and threw dust into the air.
24 And the commander of the Roman army ordered Paul to be brought into the fortress and to be whipped, in order to find out why the people were shouting thus against Paul. [For the commander of the Roman army had not understood what Paul had said, since Paul had spoken in the Hebrew language.] 
25 And when they had tied him up with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion who was stood there: Is it lawful for you to whip a Roman citizen who has not been condemned. 
26 And when the centurion had heard it, he went to the commander of the Roman army to warn him by saying: What are you going to do. This man is a Roman. 
27 Then the commander of the Roman army came and said to Paul, 'Tell me. Are you a Roman'. And Paul replied, 'Yes'. 
28 And the commander of the Roman army said, 'I have bought this citizenship with a lot of money'. And Paul said, 'I got it by birth'. 
29 And immediately those who were to question him withdrew. And the commander of the Roman army was afraid when he knew that Paul was a Roman, because he had caused to bind Paul. 
30 But the next day, wanting to know for certain why the Jews were accusing Paul, the commander of the Roman army caused Paul to be untied, and ordered the chief priests and all their council to assemble. And he caused to bring Paul down, and to place him before them.
