1 And at Iconium, Paul and Barnabas entered together the synagogue of the Jews, and they spoke in such a convincing way that a large crowd of both Jews and Greeks believed [that is to say, they believed that the message taught to them was worthy of being received]. 
2 But those who disbelieved among the Jews stirred up the Gentiles and corrupted their minds against the brothers. 
3 And Paul and Barnabas stayed in Iconium for a long time, and were speaking boldly in the Lord. And the Lord was bearing witness to the word of his grace, by causing signs and wonders to be performed by their hands. 
4 And the people of the city were divided. Some were for the Jews [who refused to believe], and others were for the apostles. 
5 Then a group of people, made up of both the Gentiles and the Jews, and of some leaders of the people, decided to violently oppose the teaching of the apostles and to stone them. 
6 And when Paul and Barnabas became aware of it, they fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding region. 
7 And there they preached the gospel [that is to say, the good news which is the word of Jesus Christ]. 
8 And at Lystra, there was a man impotent in his feet who was a cripple from the womb of his mother. He had never walked, and it happened that he was sitting there and was listening to Paul. 
9 And Paul looked at him intently, and perceived that he had faith to be healed. 
10 Then Paul said with a loud voice, 'Stand up straight on your feet'. And he jumped up, and walked. 
11 And when the crowd saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices and said in the Lycaonian language: The gods have come down to us in human form. 
12 And they named Barnabas Jupiter, and they named Paul Mercury because he was the main speaker. 
13 The temple [of their god] Jupiter was at the entrance to the city, and the chief priest of that temple brought oxen with garlands of flowers to the gates, in order to offer a sacrifice with the crowd. [Now it was not about being able to eat meat together and rejoice in the fact that a happy event had occurred among them, but it was about offering a sacrifice to their god, that is to say, performing a particular ritual to honor that god whom they supposed to be the author of the miracle that had occurred among them. They wanted to honor Paul and Barnabas in this way.] 
14 And when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their clothes, and they rushed running to go into the crowd. 
15 And they cried out and said: Men, why are you doing these things. We are men also, and we have the same passions as you. We have come here to bring you a good news, to urge you to turn away from these vain things and to serve the living God who made the heaven and the earth, and the sea, and all that is in them. 
16 In the past this God suffered all peoples to walk in their own ways.
17 But he never ceased testifying to who he is, by doing good and giving us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with gladness [when we had the desire to seek the well-being of others in what we were doing]. [Now God have acted in this way towards the children of Jacob as it is written in the law of Moses and the prophets, but also towards all others communities and individuals who have not received a particular law. For what is important for God is why a person does something and not what that person does.] 
18 With these words, the apostles have scarcely restrained the crowd from offering a sacrifice to them. [For the crowd was supposing that the apostles Paul and Barnabas were gods from heaven who had taken human form to come and visit them. This is why the crowd wanted to perform a particular ritual that did not simply consist of rejoicing together.] 
19 Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and persuaded the people [that Paul was working miracles by using the power of an evil spirit]. And they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, thinking that he was dead. 
20 But when the disciples [of Jesus] gathered around him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day he went with Barnabas to Derbe. 
21 And when they had preached the gospel in that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch. 
22 And they were strengthening the hearts of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith and saying that it is through many tribulations that we must enter the kingdom of God. 
23 And when they had appointed elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. [In those days, a new disciple has a moral obligation to let his loved ones know that he no longer wants to participate in their idolatrous practices because he has found the true God. And in this situation, the disciple can be in danger since he can be accused of idolatry because of his belief that a man is God or the son of God, but the disciple can also simply feel isolated from his loved ones who continue to have other moral principles. It is because of this particular context that the apostle Paul creates assemblies in different places, so that the disciples can support each other morally and also organize themselves to make new believers and create harmony in the world.] 
24 And they passed through Pisidia, and came to the country of Pamphylia. 
25 And when they had preached the word in the city of Perga, they went down to Attalia. 
26 And from there they sailed to Antioch, from where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had now accomplished. 
27 And after their arrival, they called the church together and reported all the things that God had used them to do, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. 
28 And they remained a long time with the disciples.
