1 On the day of Pentecost, they were all together in one place. 
2 And suddenly there came from heaven a sound which was like a rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled the whole house where they had sat. 
3 And there appeared to them tongues that were like tongues of fire, and that were separated one from another, and that came on every one of them. 
4 And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other languages according to the utterance given to them by the Spirit. 
5 Now there were sojourning in Jerusalem devout Jews from every nation under heaven. 
6 And when this noise was heard, the multitude gathered together and were astonished because each one heard them speak in his own language. 
7 And they were all amazed and marvelled, and they said to one another: Behold, are not all these people who are speaking Galileans. 
8 How then is it that we hear them in our own language, each one in our own native tongue. 
9 Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, and of Judea, and of Cappadocia, and of Pontus, and from Asia. 
10 And of Phrygia, and of Pamphylia, and of Egypt, and of the region of Libya near Cyrene, and those who came from Rome, both Jews and proselytes. 
11 And Cretans, and Arabians. How is it that we hear them speaking in our own languages ​​about the wonderful works of God. 
12 And they were all amazed, and were perplexed, and said to one another: What does this mean. 
13 But others mocked and said: They have been filled with a new wine. 
14 Then Peter who was standing with the eleven lifted up his voice and said to them: Men of Judaea, and you all who are sojourning in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words. 
15 These people are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day. 
16 But it is the fulfilment of the following thing that had been spoken by the prophet Joel. 
17 And in the last days, says God, I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy, and your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams. 
18 And I will pour out my Spirit on my servants and on my handmaidens in those days, and they will prophesy. 
19 And I will show wonders in the sky above and signs on the earth beneath. Blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke. 
20 The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. 
21 Then whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. 
22 Men of Israel, hear the following words. Jesus of Nazareth has been a man whom God has approved among you by great works, and wonders, and signs, those things that God has performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves also know. 
23 This man was delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, and you crucified and killed him by the hands of lawless men. 
24 And God has raised him from the dead, having freed him from the pains of death, because it was impossible for him to be held by it. 
25 For David said concerning him: I have always seen the Lord before my face. For he is at my right hand, so that I may not be shaken. 
26 Therefore my heart has rejoiced, and my tongue was glad, and my flesh also will rest in hope. 
27 For you will not abandon my soul in the grave, you will not allow your holy one to see corruption. 
28 You have made known to me the ways of life, and you will fill me with joy with your presence. 
29 Brothers, let me freely say to you about the patriarch David that he is dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.  
30 And now he was a prophet, and he knew that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set the fruit of his intestines on his throne. 
31 So he foresaw and spoke of the resurrection of Christ, when he said that his soul would not be left in the grave, his flesh will not see corruption. 
32 And God has raised up this Jesus from the dead, we are all witnesses of this fact. 
33 He has been exalted to the right hand of God, and has received of the Father the promised Holy Spirit which he has poured out on us, as you see and hear now. 
34 For David has not ascended into heaven, but he himself says the following thing. 
35 The Lord has said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool. 
36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you have crucified, both Lord and Christ. 
37 Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts, and they said to Peter and to the other apostles: Brothers, what should we do. [Now this question makes us understand that the Holy Spirit came only on the apostles on that day, on the eleven apostles who have always been at the side of Jesus and on the twelfth who has just been chosen. The Holy Spirit came into the world through these twelve apostles and was transmitted in two different ways in those days: either by an intentional physical contact such as the laying on of hands, as it will be the case for a new apostle called Paul who absolutely has not known Jesus and will see him in a vision, or by a listening and a good understanding of the meaning of the teaching of Jesus of Nazareth which is very well summarized by this word of David that the apostle Peter has just recalled, 'The Lord has said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool'.] 
38 And Peter said to them: Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. [Now one must repent in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and baptism in the name of Jesus Christ is simply a kind of public commitment to never offend anyone in a publicly unjustifiable way. This will be seen when Cornelius who is a Gentile will call Peter into his house, and those who will be in that house will receive the Holy Spirit after a speech of Peter, and then Peter will command the Jews who already believe in Jesus to baptize those Gentiles who have already received the Holy Spirit.]
39 For the promise is for you, and for your children, and for all those who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call. 
40 And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying: Save yourselves from this perverse generation. 
41 And those who accepted his word were baptized, and about three thousand souls were added [to the Church] on that day. 
42 And they continued steadfastly in the teaching of the apostles, in fellowship, in the sharing of bread and in prayers. 
43 And fear came on every soul, for many wonders and signs were being performed by the apostles. 
44 And all those who believed were together, and had everything in common. 
45 And they sold their possessions and goods, and divided the proceeds among all, as each had need. 
46 And they continued daily with one accord in the temple, sharing bread from house to house, and eating their food with gladness and simplicity of heart. 
47 They were praising God and finding favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved.
