1 And a certain man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a possession. 
2 And he hid a part of the price, with the complicity of his wife. Then he brought the other part of the price and laid it at the feet of the apostles. 
3 Then Peter said to him: Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to withhold a part of the price of the land. 
4 If your possession had not been sold, then would it not have remained your possession. And after your possession had been sold, was the price not at your disposal. So you had the freedom to either keep all this money for yourself, or to let it be known that you wish to keep a part for yourself. How is it that you have conceived this deception in your heart. You have not lied to men, but to God. 
5 And when Ananias heard these words, he fell down and died. Then a great fear came on all those who heard these things. 
6 And the young men arose and wrapped the dead body of Ananias, and carried him out, and buried him. 
7 And about three hours later, his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. 
8 And Peter said to her, 'Tell me, have you sold the land for such a price'. And she replied, 'Yes, it was for such a price'. 
9 Then Peter said to her: How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord. Behold those who have buried your husband are standing at the door, and they will carry you out. 
10 And she fall down immediately at his feet, and died. And the young men came in, and found her dead, and carried her out, and buried her next to her husband. 
11 And a great fear came on the whole Church, and on all those who heard these things. 
12 And many signs and wonders were being performed among the people by the hands of the apostles. They were all standing together in Solomon's porch. 
13 And none of the other people dared to join himself to the apostles, but they were saying wonderful things about the apostles. 
14 And the number of those who believed in the Lord, both men and women, increased more and more. 
15 Insomuch that the sick were brought out into the streets and laid on beds and couches, so that when Peter passed by, some of them might be overshadowed by his a part of his shadow. 
16 And many people also came together from the cities that are all around Jerusalem, bringing sick people and those tormented by unclean spirits. And all were healed. 
17 Then the high priest arose, and all those who were with him and who were of the sect of the Sadducees. For they were filled with jealousy. 
18 And they laid hands on the apostles, and threw them into the public prison. [That is to say, they had the apostles arrested.] 
19 But an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors during the night, and brought them out, and said to them the following thing. 
20 Go and stand in the temple, and speak to the people all the words of this life. 
21 And when they heard this, they entered the temple early in the morning and taught. Meanwhile the high priest and those who were with him arrived [at the place of their gathering], and called the council and all the elders of the children of Israel together, and sent to the prison to have the apostles brought. 
22 And when the officers arrived, they did not find the apostles in the prison.  
23 And they returned and reported it by saying: We have found the prison securely locked, and the guards standing at the doors. But when we have opened the doors, we found no one inside. 
24 And when the high priest and captain of the guards of the temple and the chief priests heard those words, they were very perplexed as to how this news would become clearer over time. 
25 Then someone came and told them: Behold the men whom you had put in prison are standing in the temple, and are teaching the people. 
26 Then the captain went with the officers, and led them out without violence. For they were afraid of being stoned by the people. 
27 And when they had brought the apostles before the council, the high priest asked them the followed thing. 
28 Have we not strictly commanded you not to speak or teach in that name. And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and thus you intend to bring the blood of that man on us. 
29 Then Peter and the apostles answered and said: We must obey God rather than men. 
30 The God of our fathers has raised up Jesus, whom you had killed by hanging him on a tree. 
31 God has exalted him to his right hand, to be the prince and the savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. 
32 We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey him [that is to say, those who obey Jesus]. 
33 Now when the Jewish leaders heard these words, they were prickled in their hearts and they consulted together to kill the apostles. 
34 But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law who was respected by all the people, stood up in the council and commanded to lead the apostles out for a little while. 
35 Then he said to Jewish leaders: Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves concerning what you are going to do to these men. 
36 For not long ago Theudas arose, claiming to be someone, and about four hundred men joined him. And then he was killed, and all his followers were scattered and brought to nothing. 
37 After him, Judas of Galilee arose in the days of the census, and drew away a great multitude after him. He also perished, and all those who had followed him have been scattered. 
38 And now I say to you, do not worry about these men and let them go. If their plan and their work is from men, then it will be brought to nothing. 
39 But if it is from God, then you will not be able to destroy it. Do not risk having fought against God. 
40 And they agreed with him. And they called the apostles, and had them beaten, and commanded them that they should speak no more in the name of Jesus, and released them.
41 So the apostles departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they had been found worthy to suffer some dishonor for the name of Jesus. 
42 And they continued to teach and to preach Jesus Christ every day, in the temple and in the houses of the people.
