1 Now there was a man in Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of the a Roman army in the regiment that was called the Italian. 
2 He was a religious man, and feared God with all his household. He used to give a lot of alms to the people and he prayed to God continually. [Now this man reminds us of Job and Balaam who lived in ancient times and who did not belong to the descendants of Abraham. For they each believed in the existence of a God of the concept of justice, but each had his own way of seeking a personal relationship with that God. And it is Jesus Christ who has made known the exact identity of God and his unique commandment which is the same for everyone without distinction of genealogies.] 
3 Now it was about the ninth hour of the day, and he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God who came to him and said to him, 'Cornelius'. 
4 And Cornelius looked at him and was afraid, and said, 'What is it, Lord'. And the angel said to him, 'Your prayers and your alms have come up before God, and he has remembered them'. 
5 And now, you have to send men to Joppa in order to call for Simon whose surname is Peter. 
6 He is staying with a certain Simon, a tanner whose house is near the sea. 
7 And when the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his servants, and a devout soldier from among those who were his attendants. 
8 And he told them all things, and sent them to Joppa. 
9 And the next day, while they were on the way and were approaching the city, Peter went up to the roof to pray when it was about the sixth hour. 
10 Then he was hungry and wanted to eat. And while they were preparing the food for Peter to eat, he fell into a trance. 
11 And he saw heaven opened, and something like a large sheet tied at its four corners, descending and lowering to the earth. 
12 And on it there were all the four-footed beasts and creeping things of the earth, and the birds of the air. 
13 And a voice said to Peter: Rise, Peter. Kill and eat. 
14 But Peter said: Not so, Lord. For I have never eaten anything that is polluted or unclean. 
15 And the voice spoke to him a second time, 'What God has made clean, do not call it unclean'. 
16 And this happened three times. And immediately afterward, the sheet was taken up into heaven. 
17 Now while Peter was puzzled about the meaning of the vision that he had seen, the men sent by Cornelius stood at the door after having inquired for the house of Simon. 
18 And they asked in a loud voice whether Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was staying there [in the house of the other Simon who is a tanner]. 
19 And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold three men seek you. 
20 Get up, and go downstairs, and go with them without hesitation. For I have sent them. 
21 And Peter went downstairs to the men whom Cornelius had sent to him, and said: Behold I am the one whom you seek. What is the reason why you have come. 
22 And they said: Cornelius a centurion, a righteous man and one who fears God, and of whom the whole Jewish nation gives a good report, has been divinely instructed by a holy angel to invite you into his house and hear your words. 
23 Then Peter brought them in and lodged them. And the next day Peter got up and went with them, and some of the brothers [the disciple of Jesus] from Joppa accompanied him. 
24 And they arrived at Caesarea the next day. And Cornelius was waiting for them, and had invited his kinsmen and close friends. 
25 And when Peter entered, Cornelius came to meet him, and fell at his feet, and worshipped him. 
26 But Peter raised him up by saying: Get up. For I too am a man. 
27 And Peter went inside while he was talking with Cornelius, and he found that many people had gathered together. 
28 And he said to them: You know that it is an unlawful thing for a man who is a Jew to join himself with a foreigner in order to share intimate thoughts [with a person who has not been converted to the Jewish faith]. But God has shown me that I should not call any man polluted or unclean [according to a vision that I had recently when your messengers came to look for me]. 
29 Therefore I have not tried to resist when I have been asked to come here. And now, tell me why you have wanted me to come here. [Now Peter had indeed resisted when he was asked in the vision to eat things that the law of Moses described as unclean, but then he has thought about the meaning of this whole vision and he did not resist when the Spirit asked him to go without hesitation with the persons who came to seek him. And those persons have already told Peter why Cornelius has sent them to him, but the Spirit has not informed Peter in advance of what he should say and therefore Peter assumes that Cornelius must possess additional information that will enlighten him.] 
30 Then Cornelius said: Four days ago I was fasting until this hour. And at the ninth hour I was praying in my house, and behold, a man in bright clothing stood before me. 
31 And he said to me: Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms have been remembered by God. 
32 Send now to Joppa and call for Simon who is surnamed Peter. He is staying in the house of Simon a tanner who lives by the sea. And when he comes, he will speak to you. 
33 And I immediately sent for you, and you have done well to come. Now therefore, we are all standing here before God in order to hear all the things that the Lord has commanded you to tell us. 
34 Then Peter opened his mouth and said: Truly I perceive that God does not have respect for the face of a person. 
35 For in every nation whoever fears him by acting righteously is acceptable to him. 
36 He has sent his teaching to the children of Israel, proclaiming peace by Jesus Christ who is Lord of all. 
37 You know what has happened throughout all Judea, and has begun in Galilee, after the baptism that John has preached. 
38 You know how God has anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. For he went from place to place to do good and to heal all those who were oppressed by the devil, because God was with him. 
39 And we are witnesses of all the things he has done in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem.  
40 They have killed him by hanging him on a tree. And God has raised him up on the third day, and has allowed him to appear to some people.
41 For he has appeared, not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen in advance by God. He came to us who had been his companions, and we have eaten and drunk with him after he had risen from the dead. 
42 And he has commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that he is the one who has been appointed by God to be the judge of the living and of the dead. 
43 All [the writings of] the prophets bear witness to the fact that whoever believes in him receives the forgiveness of sins through his name. 
44 And while Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word. 
45 And the circumcised believers [namely the Jews] who had come with Peter [in the house of Cornelius] were amazed, because they see that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. 
46 For those Jews who had come there with Peter heard them speak in tongues and glorify God. 
47 Then Peter said: Can one of us refuse the water of baptism to those who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we. [Since we see that they form a single community with us, then we can accept that they commit themselves to us to remain attached to our common faith.] 
48 And Peter commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord [by the Jews who had come there with him]. Then they urged Peter to stay with them for a few days.
