1 Dear Theophilus, I have written in my first book about all that Jesus began to do and teach from the beginning. 
2 Until the day that he was taken up into the heaven, after he had given orders through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. 
3 For he appeared to them alive after had suffered, and he gave them many proofs of his presence. For he was then seen by them a certain number of times in the space of forty days, and it was always to tell them about the things concerning the kingdom of God. 
4 And when they were assembled together with him, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father. And he said, I have tell you about that promise before.
5 For John has baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days. 
6 Therefore when they had gathered together, they asked of him by saying: Lord, will you restore the kingdom of Israel at that time. 
7 And he answered them: It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has set by his own authority. 
8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come on you, and you will be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. 
9 And when he had said these things, while they were watching, he has been taken up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. 
10 And while they were staring into the sky where he had gone, behold two men in white apparel were standing beside them and said the following thing to them. 
11 Men of Galilee, why do you stand here staring into the sky. This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into the heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into the heaven. 
12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount of Olives which is near Jerusalem, at about a sabbath day's journey away. [Now the sabbath is observed from one sunset to the following sunset.] 
13 And when they arrived, they went up into the upper room where they were staying. They were Peter, and John, and James, and Andrew, and Philip, and Thomas, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 
14 And all of them continued with one accord in prayer, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and the brothers of Jesus. 
15 And in those days, Peter stood up among the disciples, while the number of those who had gathered together was about one hundred and twenty, and he said the following thing. 
16 Brothers, it was necessary that the scripture be fulfilled which the Holy Spirit spoke in ancient times through the mouth of David, concerning Judas who has been a guide to those who arrested Jesus. 
17 For he was numbered among us, and had received a portion in this ministry. [That is to say, a part of the work that we have to do.] 
18 This man, having bought a field with the reward of iniquity, fell down headlong and ruptured in the middle, and all his entrails gushed out. 
19 And this became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, insomuch that that field has been called in their language Akeldama, that is to say, The field of blood. 
20 For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let his habitation be desolate, and let no one dwell in it, and let another fulfill his work [that is to say, the work that he would have done if he had not turned away from you]. 
21 Therefore we must choose one of those who have been with us all the time that the Lord Jesus was with us. [Now there have been others persons who followed Jesus to different places, and who might have been among the seventy whom Jesus chose to send out ahead of him to proclaim the coming of the kingdom of God and to heal the sick in different towns where he himself was about to come, and who were in the company that followed him when he walked to Jerusalem for the last time. But Jesus had chosen only twelve disciples to be constantly with him, and they were the only ones whom he sent the first time to go from town to town and heal the sick while announcing the coming of the kingdom of God, and they were the only ones to hear certain words of Jesus and experience certain events with Jesus.] 
22 All this time since the baptism of John until the day that he was taken up from us. And the one who is chosen will join us in becoming a witness to the resurrection of Jesus. [Now the scripture that Peter quoted to justify what he was doing simply said that the wicked man who had acted wickedly against the righteous man will be overthrown, and another will accomplish the work that he would have accomplished if he had not turned away from good. But in the meaning of the scripture it cannot be affirmed that it will be a single other person who will replace him in his work, nor that it will be a person different from those who are already accomplishing this same task. But at this precise moment Peter does not yet know the exact identity of the Holy Spirit, and he thinks that Jesus had chosen twelve apostles to be constantly with him because this corresponds to the number of the tribes of Israel when Ephraim and Manasseh are considered as half-tribes. So Peter does what is right in his own eyes, even if he knows that Jesus cannot have chosen his twelve disciples to completely represent the tribes of Israel, since these disciples did not come from all the twelve tribes, since there were the brothers John and James the sons of Zebedee and also the brothers Andrew and Peter.] 
23 And they presented two person: Joseph who was called Barsabbas and was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. 
24 Then they prayed by saying: Lord, you know the hearts of all men. Show which of these two you have chosen. 
25 So that he may have a portion in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas has turned away to go to his own place. 
26 Then they cast lots, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. [Now there is a scripture that says that when lots are cast to make a decision, any answer obtained in this way always comes from God.]
