1 Then he went to Derbe and to Lystra. And behold, there was a certain disciple named Timothy. He was the son of a Jewish woman who had believed, and his father was a Greek. 
2 And good things were said about him by the brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium. 
3 And Paul wanted to take Timothy to travel with him. And having taken him, Paul circumcised him because of the Jews who lived in that region. For they all knew that his father was a Greek. [So Paul did this thing so that the Jews would not prevent Timothy from entering the synagogues with him to preach the gospel.] 
4 And as they went on their way through the cities, they recommended to the believers to observe the decrees given by the apostles and elders who were at Jerusalem. [It is the content of the letter that the apostles and the elders wrote in Jerusalem and sent to Antioch by the hand of Judas and Silas.] 
5 And the churches were growing stronger in the faith, and were increasing in number daily. 
6 And they traveled through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word in Asia. 
7 And when they came to Mysia, they wanted to enter Bithynia but the Spirit of Jesus refused to let them do so. 
8 And they passed through Mysia, and went down to Troas. 
9 And Paul had the following vision during the night. A man of Macedonia was standing, and was beseeching him by saying: Come over to Macedonia, and help us. 
10 And after Paul had seen this vision, immediately we prepared to go to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them. 
11 We left Troas and sailed directly to Samothrace, and the next day we went to Neapolis. 
12 And from there we went to Philippi, which is the largest city in a district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. And we spent several days there. 
13 And on the sabbath day, we went outside the city gate to a river, where we supposed there was a place of prayer. And we sat down, and spoke to the women who had gathered together there. 
14 One of them was named Lydia, a seller of purple cloth from the city of Thyatira. She was a worshiper of God, and was listening to us. And the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what Paul was saying. [Now when it is said that she was a worshipper of God, it means that she had the desire not to harm others without justification, and also the desire to understand what is right to do.] 
15 And when she and her household had been baptized, she besought us by saying, 'If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay there'. And she urged us. 
16 And as we were going to the place of prayer, a certain maidservant who had a spirit of divination, and who brought great profit to her masters by divining, met us. 
17 And that maidservant was following Paul and us, and was crying out: These men are servants of the most high God, and they proclaim to us the way of salvation. 
18 And she did this for several days. And when Paul was greatly afflicted by it, he turned around and said to the spirit, 'I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her'. And that spirit went out of her at that very hour. 
19 And when the masters of that maidservant saw that their hope of gain had gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers. 
20 And when they had brought them before the magistrates, thay said: These men are disturbing our city. 
21 They are Jews who proclaim customs that it is not lawful for us to receive or to observe, seeing that we are Romans. 
22 And the crowd rose up against Paul and Silas. And the magistrates tore off the clothes of the two men, and ordered them to be beaten with rods. 
23 And after having beaten them severely, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to watch them very carefully. 
24 And the jailer, having received this order, threw them into the inner prison and bound their feet between large blocks of wood. 
25 And at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. 
26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. At that moment, all the doors were opened and the bonds of all the prisoners were loosed. 
27 And the jailer awoke, and saw that the prison doors were opened. Then he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, thinking that the prisoners had escaped. 
28 But Paul cried out with a loud voice by saying: Do not hurt yourself. For we are all here. 
29 Then the jailer told someone to bring a light, and rushed inside the prison. And he came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas. 
30 Then he brought them out, and said: Sirs, what must I do to be saved.
31 And Paul and Silas answered: Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you and your household will be saved. 
32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all those who were in his house. 
33 And the jailer took them with him at that very hour of the night, and washed their wounds. And he was baptized without delay, he and all his family. 
34 Then he brought them into his house and served them food. And he and all his household rejoiced for the fact that they had become believers in God. 
35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent some soldiers to tell the jailer: Release those men. 
36 Then the jailer reported the words to Paul by saying: The magistrates have sent word to release you. And now, go out in peace. 
37 But Paul said to the soldiers: After they had publicly and without judgment beaten us, even though we are Romans, they threw us into prison. And now they want to release us secretly. No, it will not be so. Let them come and set us free [publicly]. 
38 And the soldiers reported these words to the magistrates, who became afraid when they heard that Paul and Silas were Romans. 
39 Then they came and appeased them, and set them free, and urged them to leave the city. 
40 And when Paul and Silas had gone out of the prison, they went into the house of Lydia. And when they had seen the brothers, they comforted them and departed out of the city.
