1 And in those days, while the number of disciples was increasing, there arose a murmuring of the Grecian Jews against the Hebrews, because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. 
2 Then the twelve called together the multitude of the disciples and said to them: It is not fitting for us to leave the word of God to supervise those who serve at the table. 
3 Therefore, brothers, choose from among you seven men full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, who have always had a good reputation, and whom we will appoint to this office. 
4 And we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word. [Now this occupation of the apostles is legitimate in the context in which they find themselves. For God has not yet destroyed the unique temple that has been built to bear his name, and the members of the tribe of Levi among whom are the priests receive from the people the tithes of their income and the voluntary offerings in accordance with the commandments given by Moses, and the apostles must make it understood that Jesus is the Christ announced by the prophets to this Jewish population who need to see miracles to believe. And the only thing that Jesus has done is not to worry about the sabbath day, and to give as his sole commandment to want good for others in all that we do. So the apostles want to continue to pray for the strength to continue to perform those miracles that God allowed them to perform in the temple that bears his name, in order to make the population understand that the message of Jesus Christ comes from the God of Moses.] 
5 And this proposal pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus a proselyte from Antioch. 
6 And they presented these chosen men before the apostles, and the apostles prayed and laid their hands on them. 
7 And the word of God spread more and more, and the number of the disciples increased greatly in Jerusalem, and a large number of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. [Now on one of the occasions when Jesus appeared to his disciples before ascending into heaven in their sight, when Thomas was absent in the account of the gospel of John, Jesus breathed on his disciples to give them a higher level of the holy spirit and said to them that they had thus received the power to forgive sins. This means that the disciples of Jesus, including these priests who convert now, know the following thing: If a person offends another person, then the one who has been offended can forgive this offense without involving a priest who is a descendant of Aaron.] 
8 Then Stephen was full of grace and power, and was performing great wonders and great signs among the people. 
9 But there arose some members of the synagogue which is called the synagogue of Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and also some Jews from Cilicia and Asia, and they began to argue with Stephen. 
10 But they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the spirit by which Stephen was speaking. 
11 Then they suborned men who said: We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God. 
12 And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes. Therefore some people run to Stephen, and seized him, and brought him into the council. 
13 And they brought false witnesses who said: This man ceases not to speak against this holy place and the law [given by Moses]. 
14 For we have heard him say that this Nazarene Jesus will destroy this place, and will change the customs that Moses gave us. [Now Stephen cannot have said that it is the disciples of Jesus who will destroy the temple which is the only place in which Moses asked to burn incense in honor of God. For the message of Jesus is that one must love one's neighbor as oneself, in other words one must do nothing in a publicly unjustifiable way and one must seek the good of others in everything that is done. And indeed, the angels previously asked the apostles to go and teach the message of Jesus in the temple of the God of Moses who is also the God of Jesus, and no one yet knows when and how will be destroyed this place where the pedagogical laws of Moses are put into practice by the majority of Jews who do not yet believe in the message of Jesus. For the teaching of Jesus is that there is eternal life that is accessible only through faith in his holy commandment, but even the apostles of Jesus do not know the exact definition of eternal life despite the fact that they know the only way to access it. That is why the disciples of Jesus do not intend to destroy the temple built to serve God through the commands given by Moses, but rather to explain this message to all the Jews and gradually convince them. And the temple will be destroyed by the Romans because of a revolt of the part of the Jews who have refused to believe in Jesus Christ and to teach his message to their children, and this is similar to the fact that the first Jewish temple built by Solomon had been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon after a revolt of Zedekiah the last king of Judah.] 
15 And all those who had sat in the council looked at Stephen fixedly, and they saw that his face was like the face of an angel.
