1 After these things, Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth. 
2 And there he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. And Paul became friends with them. 
3 And since he had the same trade, Paul stayed with them and worked there. They were tentmakers. 
4 And Paul discussed the scriptures in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded both Jews and Greeks. 
5 And when Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul devoted all his time to the teaching of the gospel, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ. 
6 And when the Jews resisted and blasphemed, Paul shook his garment and said to them: Your blood is on your own heads, and I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles. 
7 And Paul left the synagogue, and entered the house of a man named Titius Justus. He was a worshipper of God, and his house was next to the synagogue. 
8 And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his household. And many of the Corinthians who had heard Paul also believed, and were baptized. 
9 Then the Lord said to Paul in a vision during the night. Do not be afraid. Do not hold your peace, but speak. 
10 For I am with you, and no one will lay a hand on you to harm you. Speak, for I have many people in this city. 
11 And Paul remained there for a year and six months, teaching the word of God among the Corinthians. 
12 Now when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews united in a revolt against Paul, and brought him before the judgment seat. 
13 And they said: This man is stirring up people to worship God in a way that is contrary to the law. 
14 And as Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were a matter of injustice or of some evil deed done to a certain person, then I would listen to you, O Jews, as I should. 
15 But if it is a matter of disputing over a word or over names concerning your law, then that is your business. For I do not want to be a judge of such matters. 
16 And he dismissed them from the judgment seat. 
17 Then all those Jews seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio did not pay attention to them. 
18 And Paul stayed in Corinth for some time. Then he took leave of the brothers and sailed for Syria, with Priscilla and Aquila. 
19 And he came to Ephesus, and Paul left Priscilla and Aquila there. And he entered the synagogue and discussed with the Jews. 
20 And those Jew begged him to stay longer, but he refused. 
21 And he took leave of them by saying, 'I must by all means celebrate the coming feast in Jerusalem [that is to say, I have to meet some people there]. I will come back to you, if God wills it'. And he sailed to depart from Ephesus. 
22 And when he came at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and saluted the church, and then he went down to Antioch. 
23 And after he had spent some time in Antioch, Paul departed and went through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples. 
24 Now there was a Jew named Apollos who was a native of Alexandria and who came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, and he was well-versed in the scriptures. 
25 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord. He was fervent in the spirit, and he spoke and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. [Now a person who accepted the message of John was committing to no longer willingly and publicly unjustifiably cause any harm to anyone, after having acknowledged to the victims the unjustifiable offenses committed in the past. For the law of the Lord given to Moses indicates that forgiveness for a sin committed by offending someone else is obtained by interacting with the victim to acknowledge the wicked deed that has been done, and the law adds that this must be done in the presence of a priest who is by definition a descendant of Aaron, and John absolutely does not call into question the law of Moses. For what John asks the people is not to seek to do good only according to the quantities prescribed in the law, but to take personal initiatives for well being to others.] 
26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And when Aquila and Priscilla heard his words, they took him with them and explained to him more accurately the way of God. [Since it was said that Apollos only knew about the baptism of John, this means that he had not yet been informed that Jesus baptized his apostles with a special Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. So the persons who have informed Apollos about the existence of John did not talk to him about Jesus, either because those persons did not believe that Jesus was the Christ awaited by the Jewish people, or because those persons did not know exactly what was taught by the sect of the disciples of Jesus. For at the beginning of the church, before the apostle Peter discovered when he went to the house of Cornelius that non-Jews are loved by God in the same way as Jews, the disciples of Jesus considered themselves as a Jewish sect. For they knew the exact definition of faith and intended to explain it to the other Jews day by day until the return of Jesus, but they were unaware of the exact definition of eternal life. And even until their death no apostle has known the exact definition of eternal life, and this is what is interesting for understanding all these stories of the deeds of the first Christians.] 
27 And when he wanted to go to Achaia, the brothers [that is to say the disciples] encouraged him and wrote to the disciples who were at Achaia to receive him. And when he had come there, he made himself very helpful by the grace of God to those who had believed [that is to say the disciples]. 
28 For he confuted vehemently the Jews in public, demonstrating from the scriptures [of the Jews] that Jesus was the Christ.
