1 Now Peter and John were going up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, which was the ninth hour. 
2 And there was a certain man who was lame from the womb of his mother. He was carried and placed daily at the gate of the temple that was called Beautiful Gate, so that he might ask alms of those who were entering the temple. 
3 And when that man saw Peter and John who were about to enter, he asked them for alms. 
4 And Peter and John stopped and looked at him earnestly, and Peter said: Look at us. 
5 So he looked at them intently, expecting to receive something from them. 
6 Then Peter said to him: I have neither silver nor gold, but I give to you what I have. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, get up and walk. 
7 And Peter took him by the right hand, and he lifted him up. And immediately his feet and his ankle bones received strength. 
8 And he jumped up and stood up, and began to walk, and he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping, and praising God. 
9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God. 
10 And they recognized that it was the one who sat at the Beautiful Gate of the temple to ask for alms. And they were filled with astonishment and wonder at what had happened to him. 
11 And while the man who had been lame was walking with Peter and John, all the people were greatly amazed and ran to them at the porch which is called Solomon's. 
12 And when Peter saw it, he said to the people: Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this thing. Why do you stare at us, as if it was by our own power or piety that we have made this man walk. 
13 The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus whom you have betrayed and denied before Pilate, when he had determined to release Jesus. 
14 You have denied the Holy One and the Just, and have desired the release of a murderer. 
15 You have killed the prince of life, and God has raised him from the dead. We are witnesses of these facts. 
16 It is by faith in his name that his name has made this man, whom you see and know, strong. It is the faith [that we have] in him that has given a perfect soundness to this man before you all. 
17 And now, brothers, I know that you and your leaders have acted out of ignorance. 
18 And God has thus fulfilled what he foretold by the mouth of all his prophets, that his Christ should suffer. 
19 Repent therefore and be converted, so that your sins may be wiped out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. 
20 And so that he may send the Christ who has been appointed for you, namely Jesus. 
21 Whom the heaven must receive until the time of restoration of all things, the time of which God has spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began. 
22 And Moses said: The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. You will listen to him in all things that he will say to you. 
23 And whoever does not listen to that prophet will be destroyed from among the people. 
24 All the prophets who have spoken since Samuel have also foretold those days. [Now the mother of Samuel had said: The enemies of God will be destroyed, from heaven he will thunder on them. God will judge the ends of the earth. He will give power to his king and exalt the strength of his anointed.] 
25 You are the children of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with our fathers, when he said to Abraham: All the nations of the earth will be blessed in your seed. 
26 God has sent his Son Jesus into the world, and has sent him to you first in order to bless you by turning away every one of you from your iniquities.
