1 And after we separated from them, we did set sail and went straight to Cos, and the next day we came to Rhodes, and from there we came to Patara. 
2 And we found a ship sailing to Phoenicia, and we went aboard and set sail. 
3 And when we had come in the sight of the island of Cyprus, we left it on the left hand and sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre. For the ship was to unload its cargo there. 
4 And we found disciples there, and we stayed there for seven days. And being moved by the Spirit, they said to Paul that he should not go up to Jerusalem. 
5 But when the seven days had ended, we prepared to continue our journey. And they all accompanied us, with their wives and children, until we came outside the city. Then we knelt on the shore and prayed.
6 Then we hugged each other, and we boarded the ship while they returned to their homes. 
7 And continued our journey from Tyre and went to Ptolemais. And we greeted the brothers there, and stayed with them one day. 
8 And the next day Paul and we who were his companions departed, and arrived at Caesarea. And there we entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven deacons [whom the apostles had chosen to supervise certain tasks within the community of believers in Jerusalem], and stayed with him. 
9 He had four virgin daughters, who prophesied. 
10 After we had stayed there many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. 
11 And he came to us, and took the belt of Paul, and bound his own hands and feet, and said: Thus says the Holy Spirit says, The man who owns this belt will be bound in the same way in Jerusalem by the Jews, and will be delivered into the hands of the Gentiles. 
12 And when we heard these words, we and the disciples who were there besought Paul not to go up to Jerusalem. 
13 Then Paul answered and said: What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart. I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. [Now Paul says this thing because it was also the Holy Spirit who asked him to go to Jerusalem, and therefore he cannot disobey an order that he has received personally. Moreover, when he was in Miletus and was saying goodbye to the elders whom he had called from Ephesus, he said that in every city the Holy Spirit warns him that bonds and afflictions await him.] 
14 And when he refused to be persuaded, we did not insist and we said: Let the will of the Lord be done. 
15 After those days, we made preparations and went up to Jerusalem. 
16 And some of the disciples of Caesarea came with us, and brought us to the home of a man named Mnason who was from Cyprus and was one of the first disciples of Jesus, in order to stay in his house. 
17 And when we had come at Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly. 
18 And the next day, Paul went with us to the house of James, and all the elders were had assembled there. 
19 And when Paul had greeted them, he described in detail what God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
20 And when they heard it, they glorified God. Then they said to him: You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews have believed, but all [the other Jews] are zealous for the law. [Now the apostle Peter has no more zeal for any part of the law since the time when he had the vision in which he was informed that all foods are clean, and when he observed in the house of Cornelius that God does not make a difference between Jews and non-Jews regarding the gifts of the Holy Spirit. But not all the Jews who believe in Jesus are of this opinion because the temple of God is still present in Jerusalem. And since Jesus only commanded that each person must love his neighbor as oneself in order to obtain the eternal life, therefore the Jews who really become disciples of Jesus do not feel the need to revolt against the tribe of Levi who must receive the tithes from the population according to the law given by Moses. The place of service of the tribe of Levi is the temple of God which still exists in those days.] 
21 And now they have learned that you are teaching all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children and not to follow the customs. [Indeed, Paul teaches that it is only through faith in the power of the holy commandment given by the Lord Jesus that one can obtain the eternal life of which he does not know the exact definition. Paul knows that God will destroy the temple that has been built to bear his name and that is in Jerusalem, but while waiting for this to happen the Jew who is a disciple of Jesus can continue to honor the tribe of Levi.] 
22 What then should we do. The multitude will undoubtedly gather together, for it will be known that you have come. [Now when time passes, there are new generations of Jews who emerge from everywhere and who sometimes meet in Jerusalem during the Jewish holidays. And not everyone is necessarily aware of all the discussions that there have been over time among the disciples of a certain Jesus in Jerusalem or elsewhere.] 
23 Therefore do what we tell you. There are four men among us who have made a vow. 
24 Take them with you, and purify yourself with them, and provide for their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. Then everyone will know that what they have heard about you is false, and that you too are walking as an observer of the law. [Now it appears here that James and Jews like him think that even if Jesus is the Christ, Jews must obtain their eternal life by observing at least some parts of the law given by Moses while Gentiles must obtain their eternal life without the law. The apostles Peter and John did not hold this view, and John wrote in the second chapter of his epistle that certain Jews came out from among them the first believers and turned away from the true faith so that it was manifest that not all those who say that they believe in Jesus are really disciples of Jesus.] 
25 Regarding the Gentiles who have believed [in Jesus], we had decreed and written to them that they should abstain from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication. [Now Paul was present when this decree was made by the apostles, and he had come to Jerusalem at that time for this reason, so that there might be a discussion concerning what should be taught to the Gentiles.] 
26 Then Paul took these men, purified himself, and entered the temple with them the next day, to signify the accomplishment of the days of purification, until an offering had to be presented for every one of them. [Now Paul knows that Jesus is not interested in what a person does but only in why that person does something, and his goal at this moment is to prevent a great disturbance from occurring. Paul knows that it is already a good thing that some of those Jews know that Jesus is the Christ, and he knows that they will understand for themselves what is useless when God decides to destroy the temple that had been built to bear his name.] 
27 And when the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia saw Paul in the temple and stirred up all the multitude in order to lay hands on him.
28 They cried out: Men of Israel, come to our rescue. This is the man who teaches everywhere and to everyone against the people, and against the law, and against this place. He has even brought Greeks into the temple and thus has desecrated this holy place. 
29 For they had previously seen that Trophimus an Ephesian was with Paul in the city, and they were supposing that Paul had brought him into the temple. 
30 Then the people were prickled in their hearts throughout the city, and they ran from all sides. And they seized Paul, and dragged him out of the temple, and the doors were immediately shut. 
31 And as they were seeking to kill Paul, the news reached the commander of the Roman army that all Jerusalem was in confusion. 
32 And immediately he took soldiers and centurions, and ran to the people. And when they saw the commander of the Roman army and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
33 Then the commander of the Roman army came near, and seized Paul, and had him bound with two chains. hen he asked who Paul was, and what he had done. 
34 And some were shouting one thing in the crowd, and some others were shouting another thing. And when he saw that he could not learn anything certain because of the tumult, he ordered Paul to be taken into the fortress.
35 And when Paul reached the stairs, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd. 
36 For the people were following him, and they were shouting: Kill him. 
37 And as Paul was being brought into the fortress, Paul said to the commander of the Roman army, 'Can I say something to you'. And the commander of the Roman army replied, 'Do you know Greek'. 
38 Are you not the Egyptian who recently raised a sedition and led four thousand terrorists into the wilderness. 
39 And Paul said: I am a Jew from Tarsus in Cilicia, a city that is not without importance. Allow me to speak to the people, I beseech you. 
40 And when the commander of the Roman army gave him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and beckoned with the hand to the people. And the people became quiet, and Paul said the following thing to them in the Hebrew language.
