1 Now when Paul and Silas went through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, and there was a synagogue of Jews in that city. 
2 And Paul entered it, according to his custom. And on the sabbath days, three sabbath, he discussed the scriptures with them. 
3 He was explaining and establishing that Christ had to suffer, and to rise from dead. And Paul said: And the Christ is the man Jesus whom I announce to you. 
4 And some of them were convinced, and joined Paul and Silas. And so did a large multitude of Greeks fearing God, and also many respectable women.
5 But those of the Jews who refused to believe were filled with jealousy. Therefore they chose some vagabonds who were wicked men, and gathered a crowd, and made a tumult in the city. Then they went to the house of Jason in order to seek Paul and Silas and to bring them out before the people. 
6 And when they found them not, they dragged Jason and a few brothers before the rulers of the city, and shouted: These people have turned the world upside down, and now they have come here to do likewise. And Jason has received them. 
7 They all act against the decrees of Caesar. For they say that there is another king whose name is Jesus. 
8 And when the rulers of the city and the crowd heard those words, they were prickled in their hearts. 
9 Nevertheless they did let go Jason and the others, after having obtained a deposit from them. 
10 And the brothers immediately made Paul and Silas leave at night to go to Beroea. And when they arrived there, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. 
11 The thoughts of the Jews of that city were more noble than those of the Jews of Thessalonica. And they received the word with the will to understand, examining the scriptures daily to find out if those things were so. 
12 And many of them believed, as well as many honorable Greek women, and many Greek men. 
13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica heard that Paul was proclaiming the word of God at Beroea, they came there to agitate the crowds. 
14 Therefore the brothers [that is to say, the disciples] immediately caused Paul to go on the side of the sea. But Silas and Timothy remained at Beroea. 
15 And those who accompanied Paul led him to Athens. Then they returned, responsible for transmitting to Silas and Timothy the order to join Paul as soon as possible. 
16 Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, he was prickled in his heart at the sight of this city full of idols. 
17 And he was discussing the scriptures in the synagogue with Jews and with devout persons [on the sabbath day], and in the public places every day with whoever met him. 
18 Then some philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics met him. And some said, 'What does this waffler say'. And others said, 'It seems that he announces strange gods. For he preaches Jesus and the resurrection'. 
19 And they took him, and brought him to the Areopagus council, and said: Can we know what is this new doctrine that you teach. 
20 For you make us hear strange things. Therefore we want to know the meaning of these things. 
21 Now all the Athenians and foreigners who stayed in Athens spent their time only telling or listening to things. 
22 Then Paul stood up before the meeting of the Areopagus council and said: Men of Athens, I have seen that in all things you are too superstitious. 
23 For I have walked through your city and have seen the objects of your devotion, and I have even discovered an altar with this inscription, 'To an Unknown God'. What you worship without knowing it, it is what I am exposing to you. 
24 The God who has made the world and all things that is in it, being Lord of the heaven and the earth, does not dwell in temples made with human hands. 
25 He is not served by human hands, as if he lacked something, since he himself gives life, breath and all things to everyone. 
26 He caused all the people of men, made out of one blood, to dwell on all the face of the earth. And he has determined the times fixed in advance, and the limits of their habitation. 
27 He has wanted them to seek the Lord by groping for him, although he is not far from each one of us. 
28 For in him we live, and move, and have our being. As some of your own poets have said, we are of his kind. 
29 So then, being of the kind of God, we must not think that the divinity is like gold, or silver, or stone, sculpted by art and the skilfulness of man. 
30 God was tolerant during the times of ignorance, but now he commands all men everywhere to repent. 
31 For he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world according to righteousness by the man whom he has sanctified, and he has proved it to all men by raising him from the dead. 
32 Now when they heard of the resurrection from the dead, some mocked him and others said: We will hear you concerning this another time. 
33 And Paul withdrew from among them. 
34 Nevertheless, some of the people joined Paul and believed. Among them were Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
