1 So Saul had approved the murder of Stephen [but he did not know that the witnesses who had laid their clothes at his feet before stoning Stephen had given false testimonies]. On that day there arose a great persecution against the Church in Jerusalem, and all the disciples were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. 
2 And certain men who feared God buried Stephen, and made a great lamentation over him. 
3 And Saul was ravaging the church, entering every house and dragging out men and women to put them into prison. 
4 But the disciples who succeeded to escape from Jerusalem were preaching the word wherever they went. 
5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ there. 
6 And the people were paying attention to what Philip was saying, because they heard his words and saw the miracles that he was performing.  
7 For unclean spirits were coming out of many who were possessed with demons, crying out with a loud voice, and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed.  
8 And there was a great joy in that city. 
9 Now there was in that city a certain man named Simon who claimed to be a person of great importance. He used to practice sorcery and amaze the people of Samaria before the arrival of Philip. 
10 And all the people, from the least to the greatest, was listening to him and was saying: God has given to this man the power that is called the great power. 
11 And they listened attentively to him because he had been astonishing them for a long time with his sorceries. [Now it is not said what was the exact message that he was teaching to the people, and it is possible that he was simply trying to earn money to live. It is not said that he incited the people to disbelieve in the law given by Moses.] 
12 But when they believed in the message of Philip who was preaching the good news of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, then both men and women were baptized. 
13 And Simon himself believed and was baptized. And he was staying with Philip, and was amazed at the signs and great miracles that were being performed. 
14 Now when the apostles who were in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, then they sent Peter and John there. 
15 When they arrived there, they prayed for them so that they might receive the Holy Spirit. [That is to say, so that they might receive a good level of understanding of the message of Jesus but not necessarily the highest level.] 
16 For it had not yet fallen on any of them, and they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
17 Then Peter and John laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. 
18 And when Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money and said the following thing to them. 
19 Give me also this power, so that whoever I lay my hands on may receive the Holy Spirit. 
20 Then Peter said to him: May your money perish with you, because you have thought that the gift of God can be purchased with money. 
21 You have neither part nor fellowship in this matter. For your heart is not right before God. 
22 Repent therefore of this wickedness, and pray to the Lord so that the thought of your heart may be forgiven you if possible. 
23 For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity. 
24 And Simon answered and said: Pray to the Lord for me, so that nothing of what you have spoken may happen to me. 
25 Now when they had testified to the word of the Lord and preached it, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they were preaching the gospel in several Samaritan villages that were on their way back to Jerusalem. 
26 And an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip and said: Arise and go toward the south to the deserted road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. 
27 And Philip arose and went. And behold, there was a certain man of Ethiopia, an eunuch who had a great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians and was overseer of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship. 
28 He had sat in his chariot and was returning, and was reading the book of the prophet Isaiah. 
29 Then the Spirit said to Philip: Go ahead and approach this chariot. 
30 And Philip ran to come there, and heard the Ethiopian reading the prophet Isaiah. And Philip said to him: Do you understand what you are reading. 
31 And he answered and said, 'How can I, unless someone guides me'. And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. 
32 The passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this: He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before his shearer, so he did not open his mouth. 
33 His judgment was taken away in his humiliation. But who can declare his generation. For his life has been cut off from the earth. 
34 Then the eunuch said to Philip: I pray you, of whom does the prophet speak these things. Is it of himself, or of some other. 
35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and began with this passage, and preached to him the gospel of Jesus. 
36 And as they continued on the way, they came to a certain place where was some water. And the eunuch said, 'Here is water. What prevents me from being baptized'. 
37 And Philip said, 'If you believe with all your heart, then it is possible'. And the eunuch answered and said, 'I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God'. 
38 Then he commanded the chariot to stop. And Philip and the eunuch both went down into the water, and Philip baptized the eunuch. 
39 And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more. And the eunuch continued on his way rejoicing. 
40 And Philip found himself at Azotus, and from there he preached the gospel in every town through which he passed until he came to Caesarea.
