1 Then the high priest said: Are these things so. 
2 And Stephen answered and said: Brothers and fathers, listen. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran. [There was no concept of a house of the Lord at that time.]
3 And God said to him: Leave your country and your kindred, and go to the land that I will show you. 
4 Then he went out of the land of the Chaldeans, and dwelt in Haran. And from there, after the death of his father, God brought him to this land where you now dwell. 
5 And God gave him no inheritance in this land, not even enough to set foot on, but God promised to give it for a possession to him and his seed after him, even though he had no children. 
6 And God spoke and said that his seed will sojourn in a foreign land, and they will be brought into bondage and mistreated for four hundred years. 
7 But I will judge the nation to which they will have been enslaved, says God. And after that, they will go out and serve me in this place. 
8 And God gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham begat Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day. And Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs. 
9 And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt.  
10 But God was with him, and delivered him from all his afflictions, and gave him wisdom and favor in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Pharaoh made him governor over Egypt and over all his house. 
11 Then a famine came over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and the distress was great, and our fathers could not find enough to eat. 
12 And when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers there the first time. 
13 And at the second time, Joseph was recognized by his brothers, and Pharaoh knew the family of Joseph. 
14 Then Joseph sent for his father Jacob, and all his relatives, seventy five souls. 
15 And Jacob went down to Egypt, and died there, he and our fathers. 
16 And they were carried to Shechem, and laid in the sepulcher that Abraham had bought with money from the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem. 
17 And the time drew near for the fulfillment of the promise which God had made to Abraham, and the people increased and multiplied in Egypt.
18 Until another king arose over Egypt, a king who did not know [the story] of Joseph. 
19 This king has acted wickedly towards our kind. He has mistreated our fathers, and has caused them to expose their newborn babies whom Pharaoh want to kill. 
20 Moses was born at that time. He was beautiful in the sight of God, and was nourished for three months in his father's house. 
21 And when he was exposed, the daughter of Pharaoh took him and raised him as her own son. 
22 And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in words and in deeds. 
23 And he was forty years old when the desire to visit his brothers the children of Israel came into his heart. 
24 And when he saw one of them being mistreated, he defended him, and avenged the one who was being mistreated by smiting the Egyptian. 
25 And he thought that his brothers would understand that God was granting them deliverance by his hand, but they did not understand. 
26 And the next day, he came among them and saw that some of them were fighting. And he exhorted them to peace by saying: Sirs, you are brothers. Why do you mistreat one another. 
27 But the one who was doing wrong to his neighbor pushed Moses away, and said: Who made you a ruler and a judge over us. 
28 Do you intend to kill me like you have killed the Egyptian yesterday.
29 Then Moses fled because of those words, and he went to live in the land of Midian where he begat two sons. 
30 And forty years later, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sinai, in a flame of fire of a burning bush. [There was no concept of a house of the Lord at that time.]
31 And when Moses saw this, he was amazed at the sight. And as he drew near to examine it, the voice of the Lord came to him in the following words. 
32 I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob. And Moses was trembling, and did not dare to look at the bush.
33 Then the Lord said to him: Take off your shoes from your feet. For the place where you stand is a holy ground. 
34 I have seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. I have heard their groaning, and I have come down to rescue them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt. 
35 It was that Moses whom they had disowned by saying, 'Who has made you a ruler and a judge'. God sent him to be both a ruler and deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. 
36 And he brought them out of Egypt by performing signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and in the red sea, and in the wilderness during forty years. 
37 It is that Moses who said to the children of Israel: God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. You will listen to him. [There was already a concept of a house of the Lord at that time, and it had been introduced by Moses.]
38 This is the Moses who led the congregation in the wilderness by the hand of the angel who spoke to him on mount Sinai. He was with our fathers, and he received living oracles to give them to us. 
39 But our ancestors did not want to obey Moses. They rejected him and turned back their hearts toward Egypt. 
40 For they said to Aaron: Make us gods that we will set before us. For we do not know what has become of this Moses who has brought us out of the land of Egypt. 
41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. 
42 Then God turned away from them and delivered them to serve the army of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets: Have you offered me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel. 
43 You have carried the tent of Moloch and the star of the god Rephan, the images which you have made to worship them. Therefore I will carry you away beyond Babylon. 
44 Our fathers had the tabernacle of testimony in the wilderness, as the one who was speaking to Moses had commanded him to make it according to the pattern that he had seen. 
45 And our fathers, having received that tabernacle of testimony, brought it under the leadership of Joshua into promised land which was possessed by the nations whom God drove out at that time before our fathers. And it was used there until the days of David. 
46 And David found favor in the sight of God, and desired to build a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. 
47 And it was Solomon who built him a house. 
48 But the Most High does not dwell in houses built by human hands, as the prophet has said the following thing. 
49 The heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What house will you build for me, says the Lord. Or what is the place of my rest. 
50 Has not my hand made all these things. 
51 O stiffnecked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so you do. 
52 Which of the prophets had not been persecuted by your fathers. They killed those who foretold the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered. 
53 You who have received the law from the mouths of angels [through Moses], and have not kept it. 
54 When those who were in the council heard all these words of Stephen, they were furious in their hearts and they gnashed their teeth at him. 
55 But Stephen was full of the Holy Spirit, and then he looked fixedly at the sky. And he saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. 
56 And he said: Behold I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing at the right hand of God. 
57 Then they shouted with a loud voice, and covered their ears with their hands, and hasten to run towards him to silence him, all of them at once. 
58 And they dragged him out of the city, and stoned him. And those who had given false testimony against Stephen to have him arrested laid down their coats at the feet of a young man named Saul. 
59 And they stoned Stephen who was praying to God and saying: Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. 
60 And he fell on his knees and cried out with a loud voice: Lord, forgive them this sin [because they do not know what they are doing]. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
