1 Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family that I brought out of the land of Egypt. 
2 I have chosen you, you only, out of all the families of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. 
3 Can two persons walk together if they have not agreed to do so. 
4 Does a lion roar in the forest when he is looking for a prey. Does a young lion cry out from his den when he want to find something to eat. 
5 Can a bird fly into a snare on the ground if no food is placed there for him. Will a good trap placed on the ground be triggered without catching anything. 
6 Can a trumpet be sounded in a city and not frighten the people. Can evil befall a city when Yahweh has not commanded it. 
7 Surely the Lord Yahweh does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets. 
8 When the lion roars, the people nearby are frightened. When the Lord Yahweh speaks, a prophet must prophesy. 
9 Proclaim it in the palaces of Ashdod and in the palaces of the land of Egypt, and say: Come together on the mountains of Samaria and see the great confusion in its the midst, and the oppression in its midst. 
10 They accumulate in their palaces the goods obtained through violence and theft. 
11 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: And adversary will surround the land and destroy your strength, and your palaces will be plundered. 
12 Thus says Yahweh: As a shepherd may take out only two legs or a piece of an ear of a sheep from the mouth of a lion, so only a remnant of the children of Israel who live in Samaria will not be directly affected by the destruction that is to come. 
13 Listen and declare this to the house of Jacob, says the Lord Yahweh the God of armies. 
14 In the day that I will punish Israel for their transgressions, I will strike the altars of Bethel. The horns of the altar will be broken and will fall on the ground. 
15 And I will smite the winter houses and the summer houses. And the ivory palaces will perish, and the great houses will be destroyed, says Yahweh.
