1 Listen to this word, this lamentation that I pronounce on you, O house of Israel. 
2 The virgin Israel has fallen, and she will no more rise. She has been cast down on her land, and there is no one to raise her up. 
3 For thus speaks the Lord Yahweh: The city that went out by a thousand will keep only one hundred. And the one that went forth by a hundred will only keep ten from the house of Israel. 
4 For thus speaks Yahweh to the house of Israel: Seek me, and you will live. 
5 Do not seek Bethel, do not go to Guilgal, do not go to Beersheba. For Gilgal will go into captivity, and Bethel will be annihilated. 
6 Seek Yahweh, and you will live. Lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, and there be no one to quench it in Bethel. 
7 You who turn justice into wormwood, and cast down fairness to the ground. 
8 Seek the one who created the Pleiades and Orion. He turns the shadow of death into morning, and he obscures the day to make it the night. He calls the waters of the sea, and spreads them on the surface of the earth. Yahweh is his name. 
9 He strengthens the destroyer against the mighty, and the ruin comes on the fortresses.
10 For you hate him who rebukes in the gate, and you abhor him who speaks uprightly. 
11 You trample the poor, and you extort wheat from them. Therefore you have built houses of hewn stones, but you will not dwell in them. You have planted pleasant vineyards, but you will not drink of their wine. 
12 For I know your many transgressions, and your great sins. You oppress the honest, and you take bribes, and you violate the right of the poor in the gate. 
13 Therefore he who is prudent will keep silence in such a time. For it is an evil time. 
14 Seek good and not evil, so that you may live. For then Yahweh the God of armies will be with you as you say. 
15 Hate what is evil and love what is good, establish justice in the gate. And maybe Yahweh the God of armies will then have mercy on the remnant of Joseph. 
16 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of the armies, the Lord: There will be wailing in all streets, and they will say in the highways, 'Alas, alas'. And they will call the plowman to mourn, and those who are skilful in lamentations to wail. 
17 And there will be lamentations in all vineyards. For I will pass through the midst of you, says Yahweh. 
18 Woe to those who desire the day of Yahweh. What are you expecting from it. The day of Yahweh will be darkness and not light. 
19 You will be like a man who flees from a lion and who meets a bear. Or a man who goes into his house and leans on his hand against the wall, and is bitten by a snake. 
20 Will not the day of Yahweh be darkness and not light. Even very dark without any brightness. 
21 I hate and despise your feasts, I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. 
22 When you offer me your burnt offerings and your meal offerings, I take no pleasure from it. And concerning the fattened beasts that you offer for your peace offerings, I do not look at them. 
23 Take away from me the noise of your songs. For I do not listen to the melody of your lute. 
24 But let justice flow like waters, and righteousness like a stream that never becomes dry. 
25 Have you given me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years of the wilderness, O house of Israel. 
26 But you have borne Sakkuth your king, and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which you made for yourselves. 
27 Therefore I will cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, says Yahweh whose name is the God of armies.
