1 The Lord Yahweh showed me this vision. And behold, he was forming a swarm of locusts as the late crop was starting to come up. And lo, it was the late crop after the hay had been cut to pay the king’s tribute. 
2 And when they had completely devoured the grass of the land, then I said: O Lord Yahweh, I beseech you to forgive. How will Jacob survive. For he is so weak. 
3 And Yahweh repented concerning of this. It will not happen, says Yahweh. 
4 And the Lord Yahweh showed me this vision. And behold, the Lord Yahweh proclaimed a punishment by fire. And the fire devoured the ocean and was beginning to eat up the land. 
5 Then I said: O Lord Yahweh, I beseech you to cease. How will Jacob survive. For he is so weak. 
6 And Yahweh repented concerning this. This also will not happen, says the Lord Yahweh. 
7 And he showed me this vision. And behold, the Lord stood on a wall made by a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand. 
8 And Yahweh said to me, 'Amos, what do you see'. And I answered, 'A plumbline'. Then the Lord said: Behold I will set a plumbline in the midst of my people Israel. I will not spare them anymore. 
9 And the high places of Isaac [the son of Abraham and the father of Jacob] will be desolate, the sanctuaries of Israel will be destroyed. And I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. [Now Yahweh is speaking of the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, namely his legacy of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, because it is because of him that the people of the kingdom of Israel have turned away from the commandments given by Moses for several generations.]
10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam [the son of Joash] king of Israel by saying: Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words. 
11 For Amos has spoken thus: Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will be carried away captive out of their land. 
12 And Amaziah said to Amos: O you the seer, go and flee to the land of Judah, and eat your bread there, and prophesy there. 
13 Do not prophesy any more at Bethel, because it is a royal sanctuary and a royal house. 
14 Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah: I am not like the other prophets [to whom Yahweh speaks at any time and who can make it their profession], and I am not a son of a prophet [that is to say, a disciple who studies to become a prophet - under the guidance of a leader in those days]. But I am a shepherd, and a gatherer of wild figs. 
15 And Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me: Go and prophesy to my people Israel. 
16 Now therefore hear the word of Yahweh, you who say: Do not prophesy against Israel, do not speak against the house of Isaac [the son of Abraham and the father of Jacob, Jacob being Israel]. 
17 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Your wife will be a whore in the city, and your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, and your land will be divided by line [by others who will possess it]. And you will die in a foreign land, and Israel will surely be carried captive out of his land.
