1 The words of Amos, one of the shepherds from the city Tekoa. He had this revelation concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah [also called Azariah] king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. 
2 And he said: Yahweh will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem. The dwelling places of the shepherds will mourn, and the top of Carmel will wither. 
3 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Damascus, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have trodden Gilead with iron sledges. 
4 Therefore I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, and it will devour the palaces of Ben-hadad. 
5 And I will break the bars [of the gates] of Damascus, and I will cut off the inhabitants from the plain of Aven, and him who holds the scepter from Beth-eden. And the people of Syria will go into captivity to Kir, says Yahweh. 
6 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Gaza, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have carried away a multitude of captives to deliver them to Edom. 
7 Therefore I will send a fire on the walls of Gaza, and it will devour its palaces. 
8 And I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon. And I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines will perish, says the Lord Yahweh. 
9 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Tyre, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and have not remembered the brotherly covenant. 
10 Therefore I will send a fire on the walls of Tyre, and it will devour its palaces. 
11 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Edom, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For he has pursued his brother with the sword, having extinguished his compassion. For his anger burns continually, and he keeps his fury forever. 
12 Therefore I will send a fire on Teman, and it will devour the palaces of Bozrah. 
13 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of the children Ammon, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have ripped open the bellies of the pregnant women of Gilead, in order to enlarge their territory. 
14 Therefore I will kindle a fire on the walls of Rabbah, and it will devour its palaces, with shouting in the day of battle and with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind. 
15 And their king will go into captivity, he and his officials with him, says Yahweh.
