1 Woe to those who enjoy life in Zion, and those who feel so safe on the hill country of Samaria. They are the leaders of my people, and the house of Israel seeks counsel from them, and this people considers itself as the most privileged of the nations. 
2 Go to Calneh and see. And then go from there to Hamath the great and see, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines and see. Is one of your two kingdoms more prosperous than one of those cities. Is their territory larger than your territory. 
3 You think that the day of evil is far away, and you cause the seat of violence to come near. [That is to say, you take pleasure in despising fairness.] 
4 You lie on ivory beds, and stretch yourselves on your couches. You eat tender young lambs from the flock, and young calves from the stall. 
5 You play the lute in an eccentric way, and you think that you are as skilled as David regarding musical instruments. 
6 You drink wine in fancy cups, and you search the finest cosmetic ointments for your bodies, and you do not feel sorrow concerning the affliction of Joseph. 
7 Therefore you will be taken captive with the first captives. The happiness of those who indulge in futile pleasures will not last. 
8 The Lord Yahweh has sworn by himself, Yahweh the God of armies has said: I abhor the pride of Jacob, and I hate the eccentricity of his palaces. Therefore I will deliver up the city and all that is in it. 
9 And if ten men remain in a house at that time, then they will die. 
10 And the uncle of a dead man will come to bring the corpse out of the house and burn it, and he will say the one who will be hiding at the back of the house, 'Is there still anyone with you'. And the man will answer, 'No one'. And the other will say, 'Hold your peace, for it is not the time to mention the name of Yahweh'. 
11 For behold, Yahweh has commanded. He will bring down the great house in ruins, and the small house in heaps. 
12 Do horses run on a rock. Do one plow there with oxen. For you have turned the pleasure of righteousness into bitterness, and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood. 
13 You rejoice in futilities, and you say: Have we not gotten power by our own strength. 
14 Therefore behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, says Yahweh the God of armies. And they will oppress you from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of the wilderness.
