1 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Moab, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For he has burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime. 
2 Therefore I will send a fire on Moab, and it will devour the palaces of Kerioth. And Moab will die in a tumult, with shouts and with the sound of a trumpet. 
3 And I will cut off the judge from among them, and I will kill all their leaders with him, says Yahweh. 
4 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Judah, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have despised the law of Yahweh and have not kept his commandments, and their falseness have caused them to err in the ways in which their fathers had walked. 
5 Therefore I will send a fire on Judah, and it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem. 
6 Thus says Yahweh: Because of three transgressions of Israel, and even four, I will not revoke the punishment. For they have sold the righteous for silver, they have sold the poor for the price of a pair of sandals. 
7 They pant to see the dust of the earth on the heads of the poor, and they pervert the justice due to the afflicted. Fathers and sons have sexual relations with the same woman, and they thus profane my holy name. 
8 And they go beside every of the altars [that they have built everywhere despite my ban], and there they lay themselves down on garments taken as pledge [from the poor]. And they drink the wine paid for with the money given by those who have been fined in the house of their gods. 
9 I had destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars and who were as strong as the oaks. I had destroyed their fruit above and their roots below. 
10 I had brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite. 
11 And I raised up prophets from among your sons [and your daughters], and Nazirites from among your young men. Is it not thus, O children of Israel. It is Yahweh your God who is asking you this question. 
12 But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and you commanded the prophets by saying: Do not prophesy. 
13 Behold I will crush you, as a cart laden with sheaves crushes the ground. 
14 The swift will not escape, and the strong will not resist, and the mighty will not save his life. 
15 He who handles the bow will not resist, and he who is swift of foot will not escape, and he who rides the horse will not save his life. 
16 The bravest of warriors will flee naked in that day, says Yahweh.
