1 I saw the Lord standing on the altar, and he said: Smite the tops of the columns and shake them to the ground. Cause them to fall in pieces on the heads of everyone. And I will kill the survivors with the sword. Not one of them will be able to escape by fleeing, not one of them will escape. 
2 Though they dig to the deep of the earth, my hand will pluck them out. Though they climb up to heaven, I will bring them down. 
3 Though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search them and bring them out from there. Though they hide from my sight in the depths of the sea, I will command the snake to bite them there. 
4 Though they go into captivity before their enemies, I will command the sword and it will kill them there. I will set my eyes on them for evil and not for good. 
5 For the Lord Yahweh the God of armies will touch the land, and the land will melt, and all the people who dwell there will mourn. The land will rise up wholly like a river and will fall, like the river of Egypt. 
6 He has built his dwelling place in the heavens, and has put his vault on the earth on the earth. He calls for the waters of the sea, and pours them out as rain on the face of the earth. Yahweh is his name. 
7 Are you not like the Ethiopians to me, O children of Israel, says Yahweh. Have I not brought Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines out of Caphtor, and the Syrians out of Kir. 
8 Behold the eyes of the Lord Yahweh are on the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from the face of the earth. Nevertheless I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, says Yahweh. 
9 For lo, I will give command and I will scatter the people of Israel among all nations. But it will be like someone sifting flour. The flour is shaken through a sieve, and the good flour falls through while the bad lumps are caught. 
10 For all the sinners of my people will die by the sword, those who say: Evil will neither meet us nor come near us. 
11 In that day I will raise up the tabernacle of David that has fallen down, and close its breaches. And I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as it as in the days of old. 
12 So that they may possess [through their legacy] the remnant of Edom and of all the nations, those on whom my name is called, says Yahweh who does these things. 
13 Behold the days come, says Yahweh, when workers will still be harvesting while it is time to plow the fields again, and they will still be trampling the grapes while it is time for a new crop. And the mountains will drop sweet wine, and all the hills will melt. 
14 I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel, and they will rebuild the devastated cities and inhabit them, and they will plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they will make gardens and eat their fruit. 
15 I will plant them on their land, and they will no more be plucked up out of their land that I have given them, says Yahweh your God.
