1 The Lord Yahweh showed me this vision. And behold, there was a basket of summer fruit. 
2 And he said, 'Amos, what do you see'. And I replied, 'A basket of fruit'. Then Yahweh said to me: The end has come for my people Israel. I will no longer ignore their sins. 
3 And the songs of their temple will be wailings in that day, says the Lord Yahweh. And they will cast a multitude of corpses everywhere with silence. 
4 Hear this, O you who devour the poor and who cause the needy of the land to perish. 
5 You say: When will the new moon be over, so that we may sell grain. When will the sabbath end, so that we may open the barns. We will make the ephah smaller, we will make its price higher, and we will alter the scales to deceive. 
6 Then we will buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes. And we will sell the waste of wheat. 
7 Yahweh has sworn, he who is the glory of Jacob: Surely I will never forget any of their deeds. 
8 Will not the land tremble for this. Will not every of its inhabitants mourn for this. The land will rise up wholly like a river, it will rise and fall like the river of Egypt. 
9 In that day, says the Lord Yahweh, I will cause the sun to go down at noon and I will darken the land in broad daylight. 
10 And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation. And I will bring sackcloth on every waist, baldness on every head. I will make the land mourn as for an only son, and its end will be like a bitter day. 
11 And behold, the days are coming, says the Lord Yahweh, when I will send a famine in the land. Not a famine of bread or a thirst for water, but a hunger and a thirst to hear the words of Yahweh. 
12 And they will wander from sea to sea, and from the north to the east, and will run backward and forward to seek the word of Yahweh, and will not find it. 
13 The beautiful virgins and young men will faint with thirst in that day.
14 They swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, 'As your god is alive, O Dan' or 'As the manner of Beersheba is alive'. But they will fall, and will never rise up again [namely those false gods].
