1 Hear this word, you heifers of Bashan who are on the hill country of Samaria, who oppress the poor and crush the needy, and who say to your husbands: Bring, and let us drink. 
2 The Lord Yahweh has sworn by his holiness: Behold the days are coming on you when you will be taken away with hooks, and your offspring with fishhooks. 
3 And you will go out through the breaches, every one straight before her, and you will throw yourselves on the pile of dead bodies, says Yahweh. 
4 Go to Bethel and sin. Go to Gilgal and sin more. Offer there your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes every three days. [Now the house built by Solomon to bear the name of Yahweh is not located in those places, but rather in Jerusalem in the kingdom of Judah. And as for the people who are not in the territory of the kingdom of Judah, but rather in the territory of the kingdom of Israel, some of them think that they have no choice and therefore they go to make their offerings in those places which they consider to be acceptable alternatives in the eyes of Yahweh. But Yahweh is not only offended by the fact that they go to those places, but also by their behavior when they go there since they multiply offerings for reasons that are not honorable in his eyes. For what is important in the eyes of Yahweh is why a person is doing what he is doing and not what that person is doing.] 
5 You offer your peace offerings with leaven [as it is requested for the peace offerings of gratitude] and you proclaim it [to everyone in the hope that they will admire you for the love that you show toward me in this way]. And you make proclamations when you offer your freewill offerings. You act thus because what is important for you is the way others look at you, O children of Israel, says the Lord Yahweh. 
6 Therefore I have given you cleanliness of teeth [that is say, very little food] into all your cities, and want of bread into all your dwellings. And nevertheless you have not returned to me, says Yahweh. 
7 And I have also withheld the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest. I caused rain to fall on one city, while causing another city to receive no rain. One piece of field received rain, and another piece of field withered away because of the lack of rain. 
8 Therefore two or three cities went to another city in order to drink water, but they were not satisfied. And nevertheless you have not returned to me, says Yahweh. 
9 And I have smitten you with mildew and blight. Your many gardens, and your vineyards, and your fig trees, and your olive trees, have been devoured by locusts. And nevertheless you have not returned to me, says Yahweh. 
10 And I have sent the pestilence among you, as I had done in Egypt [to those who were oppressing your fathers]. I have killed your young men with the sword, and have taken away your horses. I have made the stench of your camp to rise up even into your nostrils. And nevertheless you have not returned to me, says Yahweh. 
11 And I have overthrown some of you, like Sodom and Gomorrah which God destroyed. And you have become like a burning stick plucked from the fire. And nevertheless you have not returned to me, says Yahweh. 
12 Therefore I will do something more extreme against you, O Israel. And since I will do something more extreme against you, therefore prepare yourselves for the meeting with your God, O Israel. 
13 For lo, this is the one who forms the mountains and creates the wind, the one who tells to a man what are the true thoughts of another man, the one who turns the morning into darkness, the one who walks on the high places of the earth. His name is Yahweh the God of armies.
