1 For I want you to know how great is the battle that I sustain for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, and for all those who have not seen my face in the flesh. 
2 So that their hearts may be comforted, and united in love, and enriched with the full assurance of understanding, through the knowledge of the mystery of God, namely Christ. 
3 In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 
4 I have said this thing so that no one may deceive you with persuasive speech. 
5 For though I am absent according to the flesh, yet I am with you by spirit, rejoicing to see your good behaviors and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. 
6 Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. 
7 Being rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, just as you have been taught, and abounding in thanksgiving. 
8 Take heed lest any person makes you captive by vain deceits, or by some philosophies that come from the traditions of men, or from the rudiments of the world, and not from Christ. 
9 For in him dwells corporeally all the fullness of the divinity. 
10 You have everything fully in him, and he is the head of all dominion and authority. 
11 In him also you have been circumcised with a circumcision not performed by human hands, the circumcision of Christ which consists in stripping the body of the flesh. 
12 Having been buried with him in the baptism, you have also been raised with him through faith in the power of God who raised him from the dead. [Now the baptism mentioned here is the baptism of the Holy Spirit, that is to say, the fact of receiving the Holy Spirit in the heart through a good understanding of the message that Christ has created in the world.] 
13 You who were dead through your sins and through the uncircumcision of your flesh, God has made you alive with Christ by forgiving us all your sins. [Now those who were under the law given by Moses were receiving a legacy in the genealogy of the knowledge taught by Christ, or at least those among them who strove to be good people, and now the law of Christ has revealed that there were forms of sin in the law of Moses. There might also have been some people who were striving to be righteous in their own way and who were not under the law given to Moses, but generally speaking, those who were not under the law of Moses were not building a useful legacy.] 
14 And he has erased the handwriting of ordinances that condemned us, and which stood against us. He has destroyed it by nailing it to the cross. [That is to say, he has taught how to become a righteous person in the sight of God.]
15 He has stripped the principalities and the powers, and has made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them by the cross. 
16 Let no man therefore judge you concerning food or drink, or concerning a feast, or a new moon, or the sabbath days. 
17 It was a shadow of things to come, and the body is in Christ.
18 Let no man, under a guise of humility and by the worship of some angels, enslave you as he pleases by describing the things that he has not seen, being swollen with a vain pride by his fleshly thoughts. 
19 Instead of holding fast to the head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together by its joints and ligaments, grows as God makes it grow. 
20 If you have died with Christ from the rudiments of the world, then why do you burden yourselves with traditions, as though you were still living according to the world. 
21 Do not handle. Do not taste. Do not touch. 
22 These are precepts that become pernicious through misuse, and which are only based on the ordinances and doctrines of men. 
23 They have, in truth, an appearance of wisdom, in that they indicate a voluntary worship, humility, and contempt for the body, but they are without any merit [regarding the submission of the spirit to the law of God which is the law of Christ], and they only contribute to the satisfaction of the flesh.
