1 Masters, behave towards your servants justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. 
2 Continue steadfastly in prayer, taking care to do so with thanksgiving. [That is to say, your mind must constantly remember the existence of God, and thank him in all things.] 
3 And pray for us also, so that God may open to us the door of utterance, to proclaim the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains. 
4 And so that I may make it known as I ought to speak about it. 
5 Be wise in your conduct toward those who are not believers. Use your time in the best way you can. 
6 Let your conversations be always gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer every person. 
7 Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister, my fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all things about me. 
8 I am sending him to you for this very purpose, so that you may know how we are, and so that he may encourage your hearts. 
9 I am sending him with Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you everything that is happening here. 
10 Aristarchus my fellow prisoner sends you his greetings, as does Mark who is the cousin of Barnabas and concerning whom you have received commandments: if he comes to you, then receive him. 
11 And Jesus, who is called Justus, also sends you his greetings. These are the only Jewish believers who have worked with me for the kingdom of God, and who have been a comfort to me. 
12 Epaphras a servant of Christ, who is one of you, sends you greetings. He is always concerned about your situation in his prayers, wishing that you would be perfect in your submission to the will of God. 
13 For I can testify that he has a great concern for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, and for those who are at Hierapolis. 
14 Luke, the beloved physician, sends you greetings, as does Demas. 
15 Greet the brothers who are at Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in his house. 
16 And when this epistle has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and that you also read the epistle that comes to you from Laodicea. 
17 And say to Archippus: Take heed to fulfill the ministry that you have received in the Lord. 
18 The greeting of me Paul with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.
