1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother. 
2 To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ who are at Colossae: Grace and peace to you from God our Father. 
3 When we pray for you, we always give thanks to God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
4 Having heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and the love that you have for all the saints. 
5 Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you have already been aware through the word of truth, the word of the gospel. 
6 Which is in your midst, and throughout the whole world. It grows by bearing fruit, just as it has been among you since the day when you heard and truly understood the grace of God. 
7 As you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf. 
8 He has told us about the love that you have in the Spirit. 
9 For this reason, since the day that we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking God to fill you with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. 
10 So that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way, bearing fruit in every good work and growing in the knowledge of God. 
11 Being strengthened with all power through his glorious strength, for all endurance and patience with contentment. 
12 Giving thanks to the Father, who has given us a portion in the inheritance of the saints who live in the light. 
13 He has rescued us from the power of darkness, and has brought us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. 
14 In whom we have redemption through his blood, namely the forgiveness of sins. 
15 He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 
16 For all things have been created through him, things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions, or principalities, or powers. All things have been created through him and for him. 
17 He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 
18 He is the head of the body, which is the church. He is the beginning, and the firstborn from the dead, so that in all things he may have the preeminence. 
19 For God was pleased that all fullness should dwell in him. 
20 God has wanted to reconcile all things to himself through his Son, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through the blood of his cross. 
21 And you who were once strangers and enemies by your thoughts and by your evil deeds, he has now reconciled you by his death in the body of his flesh. 
22 In order to make you holy in the sight of God, blameless and without concealing guilty feelings. 
23 If at least you remain founded and steadfast in the faith, without turning away from the hope of the gospel which you have heard, and which has been preached to every creature under heaven, and of which I Paul have been made a minister. 
24 The fact of thinking about the fruits that you bear gives me more reason to rejoice in my sufferings. For that which is lacking from the sufferings of Christ, I complete it in my flesh for his body, which is the church. 
25 For which I have become a minister, according to the commission that God has given me to serve you, to proclaim the word of God. 
26 That is to say, the mystery hidden throughout time and generations, but now revealed to his saints. 
27 Through whom God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles the glorious riches of this mystery, which is: Christ in you, the hope of glory. 
28 He is the one whom we proclaim, admonishing every person and teaching every person with all wisdom, in order to lead everyone to perfection in Christ Jesus. 
29 This is what I work for, fighting with his strength which acts powerfully in me.
