1 So if you have been raised with Christ [that is to say, if you want to obey the Holy Spirit and thus be inhabited by the Holy Spirit], then seek the things that are above, where Christ has gone to sit at the right hand of God. 
2 Set your mind on the things that are above, and not on the things that are on the earth. 
3 For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 
4 And when Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. [That is to say, those who now die according to the flesh are changed into the glory of Christ, and everyone will be changed into the glory of Christ when he returns.] 
5 Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication, impurity, passions, evil desires, and covetousness which is a form of idolatry. 
6 It is because of these things that the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience. 
7 And you also were among them, when you lived in those sins. 
8 But now renounce all those things: anger, animosity, malice, slander, and immoral words that may come out of your mouth. 
9 Do not lie to one another, having stripped yourselves of the old man with his deeds. 
10 And having put on the new man, who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. 
11 There is here neither Greek nor Jew, neither circumcised nor uncircumcised, neither barbarian nor Scythian, neither slave nor free. For Christ is all, and in all. 
12 Therefore, as the chosen ones of God, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with bowels of mercy, kindness, humility, meekness, patience. 
13 Support one another, and if one complains about another then forgive each other. Just as Christ has forgiven you [that is to say, just as Christ has reconciled you to God], so forgive also to others. 
14 And above all these things, clothe yourselves with love which is the bond of perfection. 
15 And let the peace of Christ, to which you have been called into one body, reign in your hearts. And be grateful. 
16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Teach and admonish one another in all wisdom with psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, singing to the Lord in your hearts by the inspiration of grace. [Now Paul said this thing because songs are also a way to convey a message, so that the lyrics and melodies can attract the attention of those who are unfamiliar with the gospel or serve as a reminder to those who are already familiar with it, especially in communities where writing is not very widespread. But everyone receives a particular gift from God, one in one person way and another person in another way, and if a person wishes to be fully filled with the Spirit which is spirit of Christ, it is enough to become accustomed to inventing or remembering sentences that have a deep meaning for understanding the gospel of Christ. It is not essential to sing.]  
17 And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. 
18 Wives, be submissive to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
19 Husbands, love your wives, and do not be resentful toward them. 
20 Children, obey your parents in all things. For it is well-pleasing in the Lord. 
21 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, lest they become discouraged.
22 Servants, obey your masters according to the flesh in all things, not only in their sight, as if to please men, but with singleness of heart, in the fear of the Lord. 
23 Whatever you do, do it heartily, as for the Lord and not for men. 
24 Knowing that you will receive from the Lord the inheritance as your reward. Serve Christ the Lord. 
25 For the one who does evil will receive according to the evil that he has done. God makes no distinction between persons when he defines the notion of righteousness.
