1 Nebuchadnezzar the king, to all the peoples of all nations and languages ​​who dwell throughout the whole earth: May peace be multiplied to you. 
2 It seemed good to me to make known the signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed toward me. 
3 His signs are so great, and his wonders are so powerful. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation [that is to say, he is the only true king who reigns over everything]. 
4 I Nebuchadnezzar, I was at ease in my house and flourishing in my palace. 
5 Then I had a dream that frightened me. The thoughts that came to me on my bed and the visions of mind troubled me. 
6 Therefore I commanded to bring all the wise men of Babylon before me, so that they might explain the dream to me. 
7 Then came the magicians, and the astrologers, and the wise men of the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. And I told them the dream, but they were not able to explain it to me. 
8 And the last person who came to me was Daniel, who is called Belteshazzar in reference to the name of my God, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. He came before me, and I told him the dream in the following words. 
9 O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians. I know that you have the spirit of the holy gods in you, and there is no secret that is too difficult for you to understand. And now, give me the explanation of the visions that I have seen in my dream. 
10 Here are the visions of my mind that I have seen while being on my bed. I looked, and behold, there was a tree of great height in the midst of the earth. 
11 This tree had become tall and strong, and its top was reaching the heaven, so that one could have seen it [or at least its branches] from of all the ends of the earth. 
12 Its leaves were beautiful and its fruit were abundant, and it provided food for all. The beasts of the field had shade under it, and the birds of the air dwelt in its branches, and every living creature was fed of it. 
13 In the visions of my mind while I was on my bed, I looked and behold, a watcher and a holy one came down from heaven. 
14 And he cried aloud and said: Cut down the tree, and cut off its branches. Shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit. Let the beasts flee from under it, and the birds from its branches. 
15 But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, and bind it with chains of iron and brass among the grass of the field. Let it be wet with the dew of the sky, and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the field. 
16 His human heart will be taken from him, and a heart of a beast will be given to him, and seven times will pass over him. 
17 This sentence is by the decree of the watchers, according to the word of the holy ones, in order to let all the peoples on the earth know that the Most High rules over human kingdoms, and gives it to whoever he wants, and can set up over it the least honorable person. 
18 This is the dream that I have seen, I the king Nebuchadnezzar. And you, O Belteshazzar, give me its explanation since all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to explain it to me. You are able to do it, because the spirit of the holy gods is in you. 
19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was amazed for a long time, and his thoughts troubled him. Then the king spoke and said, 'Belteshazzar, do not let the dream and its explanation trouble you'. And Belteshazzar spoke and said: My lord, I would have liked this dream to concern those who hate you, I would have wished that its explanation concerned your adversaries. 
20 Concerning the tree that you have seen, which had become tall and strong, and whose top was reaching the heaven so that one could have seen it [or at least its branches] from all the ends of the earth. 
21 That tree whose leaves were beautiful and whose fruit were abundant, and which provided food for all, and under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and on whose branches the birds of the air made their homes. 
22 It is you, O king. You have become great and mighty. Your greatness has increased and reached the heaven, and your dominion extends to the ends of the earth. 
23 Now the king has seen a watcher and a holy one coming down from heaven and saying: Cut down the tree and destroy it. But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, and bind it with chains of iron and brass among the grass of the field. Let it be wet with the dew of the sky, and let his portion be with the beasts of the field, until seven times pass over him. 
24 Here is the explanation, O king, and it is a decree of the Most High which will be fulfilled on my lord the king. 
25 You will be driven from among men, and your dwelling will be with the beasts of the field, and you will eat grass like oxen, and you will be wet with the dew of the sky, and seven times will pass over you, until you understand clearly that the Most High rules over human kingdoms and gives it to whoever he wants. 
26 And since you have heard the command to leave the stump of the roots of the tree [in the earth], it means that your kingdom will be given back to you when you will have acknowledged sincerely that the one who rules is in heaven [that is to say, you should not indulge in pride because of the authority that you have received].
27 Now therefore, O king, let my advice be pleasing to you. Put an end to your sins by acting righteously, and to your iniquities by showing compassion to the afflicted, and thus your prosperity will continue [that is to say, the Most High will repent of what he intends to do to you]. 
28 Now all these things have happened to king Nebuchadnezzar. 
29 At the end of twelve months, it happened that he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon. 
30 And the king spoke and said: Is not this the great Babylon, that I have built for a royal residence by the power of my strength and for the glory of my majesty. 
31 And while these words were still in the mouth of the king, a voice came from heaven by saying: O king Nebuchadnezzar, the kingdom is now taken away from you. 
32 And you will be driven from among men, and your dwelling will be with the beasts of the field. You will eat grass like oxen, and seven times will pass over you, until you know that the Most High rules over human kingdoms and gives it to whoever he wants. 
33 And this thing was accomplished for Nebuchadnezzar at that same hour. He was driven from among men, and ate grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until his hairs had grown like the feathers of eagles, and his nails like the claws of birds. 
34 And at the end of those days, I Nebuchadnezzar, I lifted up my eyes to the sky, and my understanding returned to me. And I blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored the one who lives forever. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. 
35 And all the inhabitants of the earth are nothing in his sight. He does as he pleases in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and there is no one who can resist his hand or say to him: What are you doing. 
36 At that same time my understanding returned to me. And the glory of my kingdom, and my honor, and my brightness, were restored to me. My counselors and my nobles sought me, and I was established in my kingdom, and a dazzling majesty was added to me.
37 And now, I Nebuchadnezzar, I praise and exalt and honor the king of heaven. All his works highlight truths, and his ways are righteous, and he is able to abase everyone who walks in pride. [That is to say, I acknowledge that the whole duty of every person is to continuously honor and exalt only the holy spirit of the one who reigns over all things. I acknowledge the existence of this holy spirit who observes each person in an individual way by considering only the knowledge available to that person, I acknowledge that he is alive and that he wants to be the only one to be exalted by each person. I should not have behaved as if it was me who was above all things because it is rather this holy spirit who is above all things.]
