1 Now Darius king of Persia took the kingdom when he was twenty eight years old. And it pleased Darius to set one hundred and twenty seven satraps over the kingdom, and they were to be throughout the whole kingdom. [Now this Darius is one of the kings who succeeded king Cyrus the Persian over time, because it was Cyrus who put an end to the domination of the successors of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.]
2 And he placed three presidents over them, so that these satraps might give accounts to the presidents, and so that the king might not suffer any damage. One of the presidents was Daniel. 
3 Now this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and the satraps, because there was a superior spirit in him. And the king thought to set him over the whole kingdom. 
4 Then the presidents and the satraps sought to find an accusation against Daniel concerning the affairs of the kingdom, but they could find no accusation because there was no fault. For Daniel was faithful, and no fault nor evil was found in him. 
5 Then these men said: We will not find any accusation against this Daniel, unless we seek it in the law of his God. 
6 Then these presidents and satraps went together to the king, and spoke to him thus: King Darius, live forever. 
7 All the presidents of your kingdom, and the officers, and the satraps, and the counsellors, and the governors, are of the opinion that a royal decree be established to declare that for thirty days no one will pray to any god or man who is different from you, O king, and that every transgressor will be thrown into the den of lions. [Now it appears that in those days the belief of some Medes and Persians had become that there is no gods, and that each person must glorify the authorities to which he is subject among men. King Cyrus did not have that opinion but even in those days the sons do not preserve the beliefs of their fathers, like Hezekiah king of Judah and his son Manasseh king of Judah.] 
8 And now, O king, confirm the prohibition by sealing the decree. And thus it will be irrevocable, according to the law of the Medes and Persians which is immutable. 
9 So king Darius sealed the decree and thus established the prohibition. 
10 Now Daniel knew that the decree was sealed. Nevertheless he continued to pray and to praise his God three times per day, as he did previously. He went into his house, where the windows of the upper chamber were open toward Jerusalem, and there he knelt down. [Now in those days there has already been the voluntary return of the Jews to the promised land since the year when Cyrus king of Persia conquered the kingdom of Babylon, and Daniel had this habit of prayer long before that in accordance with the declarations that king Solomon had made at the dedication of the house that he had built for the name of Yahweh. For Solomon had said that if in the future the people were sent into exile when they have sinned, then he wish that Yahweh will have mercy on those who will turn toward Jerusalem to pray and thus desire the restoration and the glorification of the house that must bear the name of Yahweh. The exact identity of God is still unknown in those days.] 
11 Then those men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making supplication to his God. 
12 Then they came before the king and said to him concerning the royal decree, 'Have you not sealed a decree to declare that within a period of thirty days, anyone who prays to a god or a man instead of praying to you will be thrown into the den of lions'. And the king answered and said: The thing is unquestionable, according to the law of the Medes and Persians which is immutable. 
13 Then they answered and said to the king: This Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Judah, has not submitted to your authority, O king. For he has voluntarily chosen not to obey your decree of which he had knowledge, and he has continued to pray three times per day [to implore the favor of his God]. 
14 And the king was greatly distressed when he heard this thing [because the king had found no wickedness in Daniel before that, and the king considered that this particular transgression of Daniel was not intended to offend another human being but was due to a foolish faith in a certain God who does not exist]. And the king set his heart on the rescue of Daniel, and he endeavored until the sunset to save Daniel. 
15 But those men urged the king, and said to the king: O king, you know that the law of the Medes and Persians states that there can be no alteration of a decree or a statute that has been sealed by the king. 
16 Therefore the king gave orders to bring Daniel and to throw him into the den of lions. And the king spoke and said to Daniel: Your God whom you serve so steadfastly, may he save you. 
17 And they brought a rock, and placed it on the mouth of the den. And the king used his ring and put his seal on the rock, and he also used the rings of his officials and put their seals on the rock, so that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel [that is to say, so that no one might move that rock to bring Daniel out of the den of lions]. 
18 Then the king went to his palace, and he spent the night fasting. He did not want anyone to come and entertain him, and he could not sleep all night. 
19 Then the king arose early in the morning, and went in haste to the den of the lions. 
20 And when he approached the den where Daniel had been placed, he cried out while weeping in his heart and to speak to what might remain of the body of Daniel: O Daniel, servant of the living God [according to your own words], has your God whom you serve with such dedication been able to deliver you from the lions. 
21 Then Daniel spoke and said to the king: O king, live forever. 
22 My God has sent his angel and has closed the mouths of the lions, therefore they have not hurt me. For I have been found innocent before him. I have acted according to the knowledge that I have of the commandments of my God, and I have not intended to do you any harm [through my disobedience to your decree], O king.
23 And the king was exceeding glad for Daniel [when he heard the voice of Daniel], and the king commanded to bring Daniel out of the den. So Daniel was brought out of the den. And no wound was found on him, because he had trusted in his God [that is to say, he had trusted in the knowledge that he had of the commandments of his God]. 
24 And the king commanded to bring the men who had accused Daniel, they, and their children, and their wives, and to throw them into the den of the lions. And the lions seized them and broke all their bones in pieces before they reached the bottom of the den. [Now the king acted in this way toward those men because they used deceit to destroy a person who had done them no harm. They had observed the manner in which Daniel worshiped his God, and they had incited the king to establish a decree that should have caused the destruction of Daniel, and the king had done it without knowing their true motives.] 
25 Afterward [that is to say later in the time] king Darius wrote to all the peoples of all nations and languages ​​who dwell throughout the whole earth: May peace be multiplied to you. 
26 I command that throughout all the dominion of my kingdom, every person should fear and tremble before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, he lives forever. His kingship will never be destroyed, and his dominion will endure to the end. 
27 He is the rescuer and the helper, and he performs signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He has saved Daniel from the power of the lions. 
28 So this Daniel had prospered during the reign of Cyrus the Persian and until the reign of Darius [king of Persia].
