1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and there were visions in his head on his bed. Then he wrote concerning that dream to report its main events. 
2 And Daniel begins and said: In my vision during the night, I looked and behold, the four winds of heaven strove on the great sea [that is to say, the wind was blowing from all directions]. 
3 And four great beasts came up out of the sea, each being different from the others. 
4 The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings. And its wings were plucked while I was looking, and it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand on its feet like a man, and a man's heart was given to it. 
5 And behold another beast appeared, the second, and it was like a bear and stood on one of its side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth, and it was told to it: Get up, and eat much flesh. 
6 After this I looked, and lo, there was another like a leopard. It had on its back four wings like a bird. This beast had also four heads, and dominion was given to it. 
7 After this I looked, in the visions of the night, and behold there was a fourth beast, fearsome and powerful, and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It broke in pieces and devoured its victims, and trampled what remained under its feet. It was different from all the beasts that I saw before it, and it had ten horns. 
8 And while I was considering the horns, behold another little horn came up from among them, and three of the other horns were plucked off by the roots. And behold, this horn had eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking arrogantly. 
9 I was looking and thrones were placed, and the ancient of days sat down. His garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head was like pure wool. His throne was like fiery flames, and its wheels were made of burning fire. 
10 A river of fire flowed and came out from before him. Thousands of thousands ministered to him, and tens of thousands stood before him. The judges were set, and the books were opened. 
11 And I looked [toward the terrible beast] because of the voice of the arrogant words that the horn was speaking. And while I was looking, the beast was killed and its body was destroyed and given to the fire to be burned. 
12 And concerning the other beasts, they were stripped of their dominion but their lives were extended for a season and a time. 
13 I looked in the visions of the night, and behold, the likeness of a son of man came on the clouds of the sky. He approached the ancient of days, and they brought him near before the ancient of days. 
14 And they gave him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, so that all the peoples of all nations and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will never be taken away, and his kingdom will never be destroyed. 
15 And I Daniel was troubled in spirit within my body. The visions of my head had troubled me. 
16 And I went [in the vision] to someone who was standing there, and I asked him what all these things meant. So he told me, and explained it to me in the following words. 
17 These four great beasts are four kings who will arise on the earth. 
18 But the saints of the Most High will take the kingdom and possess it forever, even forever and ever. 
19 Then I desired to know the truth concerning the fourth beast, which was different from all the others, and exceedingly fearsome. Its teeth were of iron, and its nails were of brass. It broke in pieces and devoured its victims, and trampled what remained under its feet. 
20 And concerning the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up and before which three fell. That horn had eyes, and a mouth speaking arrogantly, and a greater appearance than the others. 
21 I looked, and the same horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them. 
22 Until the ancient of days came, and gave judgment to the saints of the Most High, and the time came for the saints to possess the kingdom. 
23 Then he explained it to me thus: The fourth beast is a fourth kingdom that will arise on earth, different from all the kingdoms. And it will devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it in pieces. 
24 And the ten horns are ten kings who will arise from that kingdom. And another will arise after them, and he will be different from the first, and he will subdue three kings. 
25 And he will speak words against the Most High, and will oppress the saints of the Most High, and will think to change the times and the law. And the saints will be given into his hand for a time, and times, and half a time. 
26 Then the judgment will be set, and they will take away his dominion, to destroy and to annihilate it forever. 
27 And the kingdom, and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven, will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all kinds of power will serve and obey him. 
28 Here is the end of the matter. And I Daniel was greatly troubled by my thoughts, and my countenance was changed in me, and I kept this thing in my heart.
