1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a thing was revealed to Daniel who was also called Belteshazzar. And the thing was true, but the time appointed was long. And he understood the thing, he had the understanding of the vision. 
2 In those days, I Daniel was mourning three full weeks. 
3 I ate no pleasant bread, and neither meat nor wine entered my mouth. And I did not anoint myself at all, until the three whole weeks were fulfilled. 
4 And on the twenty fourth day of the first month, I was on the bank of the great river which is Hiddekel. 
5 And I lifted up my eyes, and looked, and behold, there was a man clothed in linen and with a belt made of the pure gold around his waist. 
6 And his body was like the beryl, and his face shone like lightning. His eyes were like lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet were like burnished brass. And the voice of his words was like the voice of a multitude. 
7 And I Daniel, I was the only one to see the vision. For the men who were with me did not see it, but they were seized with a great fright, and they fled to hide themselves. 
8 Therefore I stayed alone and I saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me. For my strength escaped from me, and I had no more vigor. 
9 And I heard the voice of his words. And when I heard the voice of his words, then I slept on my face, and my face was toward the ground. 
10 And behold, a hand touched me, and set me on my knees and on the palms of my hands. 
11 And he said to me, 'O Daniel, a man greatly loved. Be attentive to the words that I will speak to you, and stand up in the place where you are. For I am now sent to you'. And when he had said these words to me, then I stood up while trembling. 
12 Then he said to me: Do not be afraid, Daniel. For from the first day that you did set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words have been heard. So I have come because of your words. 
13 But the prince of the kingdom of Persia resisted me twenty one days. But lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. And I remained there with the kings of Persia. 
14 Now I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision still concerns that time.
15 When he had said these words to me, then I turned my face toward the ground and I become mute. 
16 And behold, one who had the appearance of the sons of men touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth, and spoke, and said to the one who stood in front of me: O my lord, the vision has filled me with weariness and I have lost all vigor. 
17 For how can the servant of this my lord speak to this my lord while being in this state. Now there remained no strength in me, and I had no more breath. 
18 Then the one who had the appearance of a man touched me again, and strengthened me. 
19 And he said to me, 'O man greatly loved, do not be afraid. Peace be with you. Be strong, yes, be strong'. And while he was speaking to me, I was strengthened and I said: Let my lord speak, since you have strengthened me. 
20 Then he said to me: Do you know why I have come to you. And now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia. And when I am gone, lo, the prince of Greece will come. [Now the kings of Persia ruled this part of the world in those days, and after them came the kings of Greece.] 
21 But I want to make you know what is written in the book of truth. No one helps me in these things, except Michael your prince.
