1 And in the second [rather twelfth] year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had a dream that troubled his spirit so much that he could no longer fall asleep. 
2 Then the king commanded to call the magicians, and the astrologers, and the enchanters, and [the wise men of] the Chaldeans, in order to tell the king his dream. So they came and stood before the king. 
3 And the king said to them: I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit is troubled. Now I want to know what this thing means. 
4 Then the Chaldeans answered the king in the Syrian language: O king, live forever. Tell the dream to your servants, and we will give you its explanation. 
5 And the king answered and said to the Chaldeans: The thing has gone away from me. If you do not make me know the dream and its explanation, then you will be cut into pieces and your houses will be reduced to heaps of rubble. 
6 But if you tell me the dream and its explanation, then you will receive from me rewards and gifts and great honor. Now therefore, tell me the dream and its explanation. 
7 And they answered a second time and said: Let the king tell the dream to his servants, and we will give its explanation. 
8 Then the king answered and said: I realize with certainty that you want to gain time. For I have tell you that the thing has gone away from me. 
9 And now, I will have you punished without delay if you do not tell me the dream. For I see that you intend to speak to me with cunning and in falsity [that is to say, with corrupt words] until I become anxious about something else. Therefore tell me the dream, and I will know if you are able to give me its true explanation. 
10 Then the Chaldeans answered before the king and said: There is no one on earth who can tell the king what he has asked. And there has never been in the past a king, or a ruler, or a lord, who has asked such a thing of a magician, or an astrologer, or a wise man. 
11 For it is a difficult thing that the king requires. There is no one who can reveal this secret to the king, except the gods whose dwelling is not among beings made of flesh. 
12 When the king heard that, he became very angry and even furious, and he commanded to destroy all the wise men of Babylon. 
13 And when the decision was published, they were looking for the wise men to kill them, and they were also looking for Daniel and his companions to kill them. 
14 Then Daniel spoke with prudence and simplicity to Arioch who was the captain of the guard of the king, and who had gone forth to kill the wise men of Babylon. 
15 Daniel spoke and said to Arioch the captain of the guard of the king, 'Why is the decision of the king so severe'. Then Arioch made the thing known to Daniel. 
16 And Daniel went to the king, and Daniel begged the king to grant him some time to give the king the explanation of the mystery. 
17 Then Daniel went to his house and made the thing known to his companions Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah. 
18 So that they might implore the God of heaven to grant them the knowledge of this secret, so that Daniel and his companions might not perish with the other wise men of Babylon. 
19 Then the secret was revealed to Daniel in a vision during a night. And Daniel blessed the God of heaven. 
20 And Daniel spoke and said: Blessed be the name of God forever and ever. For wisdom and strength belong to him. 
21 He changes times and circumstances, he deposes and establishes kings. He gives wisdom to the wise, and understanding to those who have knowledge. 
22 He reveals what is deep and hidden. He knows what is in darkness, and the light dwells with him. 
23 I thank you and I praise you, O you the God of my fathers. For you have given me wisdom and strength. You have made known to me the secret that we have begged you to reveal to us, you have allowed us to be able to satisfy the desire of the king. 
24 And Daniel went to Arioch whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon. Daniel went and said to him: Do not destroy perish the wise men of Babylon. Bring me before the king, and I will give the explanation of the mystery to the king.
25 Then Arioch led Daniel in haste before the king, and Arioch said to the king: I have found among the captives of Judah a man who will explain the mystery to the king. 
26 And the king spoke to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, and said: Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its explanation. 
27 And Daniel answered before the king and said: The request of the king is a secret that cannot be revealed to the king neither by the wise men, nor the astrologers, nor the magicians, nor the soothsayers. 
28 But there is a God in heaven who reveals secrets, and who has made known to king Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in the latter days. And now I will tell you your dream, the vision that you saw on your bed. 
29 When you were on your bed, O king, you had the desire to know what will be after this time. And the revealer of secrets has made known to you what will happen. 
30 It is not because I am wiser than all other living beings that this secret has been revealed to me, but it is so that the explanation may be known to the king, and so that you may know the thoughts of your heart. 
31 O king, you were looking, and behold, there was a great statue. This statue was immense and exceedingly magnificent. It was standing before you, and its appearance was terrifying. 
32 The head of the statue was of pure gold. Its breast and its arms were of silver, its belly and its thighs were of brass. 
33 Its legs were of iron, its feet were partly of iron and partly of clay. 
34 You were looking, and you saw a stone that had broken away without the intervention of any human hand. And the stone smote the statue at its feet which were of iron and of clay, and broke them into pieces. 
35 Then the iron, and the clay, and the brass, and the silver, and the gold, were broken in pieces together, and became like the chaff on a threshing floor in the summertime. And the wind carried them away, and no trace of them was found. And the stone that smote the statue became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. 
36 Thus was the dream, and we will declare its explanation before the king. 
37 O king, you are a king of kings. For the God of heaven has given you the kingdom, and the power, and the strength, and the glory. 
38 And he has given into your hand the children of men, and the beasts of the field, and the birds of the air, wherever they live. He has made you ruler over them all. Therefore you are the head of gold. 
39 After you another kingdom will arise, and it will be inferior to yours. And then a third kingdom of brass, which will rule over all the earth. 
40 And the fourth kingdom will be as strong as iron. As iron breaks and subdues all things, it will break and subdue everything, just as iron can break everything. 
41 And just as you have seen the feet and toes partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, so this kingdom will be divided. But there will be something of the strength of the iron in it, because you have seen iron mixed with clay. 
42 And just as the toes were partly of iron and partly of clay, this so that kingdom will be partly strong and partly brittle. 
43 And you have seen iron mixed with clay because they will be mixed by human alliances but they will not merge together, just as iron does not mingle with clay. 
44 And in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed. And this kingdom will not be given to another people, but it will break in pieces and destroy all those kingdoms, and it will stand forever. 
45 This is the meaning of the stone that you saw being cut away from the mountain without the help of any hand, and that broke in pieces the iron, and the brass, and the clay, and the silver, and the gold. The great God has made known to the king what will happen in the future. The dream is true, and its explanation is sure. 
46 Then the king Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face, and bowed himself before Daniel, and commanded to make an offering and to burn incense to honor Daniel. 
47 And the king spoke to Daniel and said: Truly your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings, and the revealer of secrets, since you have been able to discover this secret. 
48 Then the king promoted Daniel and gave him many valuable gifts. And the king made Daniel ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and chief over all the wise men of Babylon. 
49 Then Daniel asked the king to give the governorship of the province of Babylon to Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. And Daniel sat in the gate of the king.
