1 The following thing also happened in the first year of Belshazzar king of the Chaldeans. 
2 In the first year of his reign, I Daniel understood by the books that seventy years should be spent in the desolations of Jerusalem, according to the number of years that Yahweh had spoken to Jeremiah the prophet. 
3 And I turned [my heart and my body] to the Lord God [that is to say, toward the city of Jerusalem], to pray and make supplication, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. 
4 And I prayed to Yahweh my God, and made confession to him by saying: Oh Lord, the great and fearsome God. You keep your covenant, and you show mercy to those who love you and keep your commandments. 
5 We have sinned. We have committed iniquity since we have acted wickedly. We have rebelled and turned away from your commandments and your judgments. 
6 For we have not obeyed to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, and to our princes [leaders], and to our fathers, and to all the people of the land. 
7 Righteousness belongs to you, O Lord, and our portion is in shame as it appears this day for the men of Judah, and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and for all Israel, those who are near and those who are far, in all the lands where you have driven them because of their transgressions against you. 
8 O Lord, it is because we have sinned against you that our portion is in bewilderment, we, and our kings, and our princes [leaders], and our fathers. 
9 Nevertheless there are compassion and forgiveness with the Lord our God, despite the fact that we have rebelled against him. 
10 For we have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh our God, to walk in his statutes which he set before us by the hand of his servants the prophets. 
11 Yes, all Israel has transgressed your law. We have turned away from obeying your voice. Therefore the curse has been poured out on us, all the imprecations that are written in the law of Moses the servant of God. 
12 For we have sinned against God. And he has fulfilled his words that he has spoken against us and against our leaders who ruled over us, by bringing on us a great calamity. And under the whole heaven nothing has been done like what has happened in Jerusalem. 
13 As it is written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come on us. For we have not prayed to Yahweh our God, we have not turned away from our iniquities, we have not listened to your truth. 
14 Therefore Yahweh has made ready this calamity, and has brought it on us. For Yahweh our God is righteous in all his works that he does, and we have not obeyed his voice. 
15 And now, O Lord our God, you who have brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have made for yourself a name as it appears this day, we acknowledge that we have sinned. We have committed iniquity. [Now in those days when the exact identity of Yahweh is still unknown, it is normal for any Jew to pray on behalf of all the children of Jacob.] 
16 O Lord, according to your great mercy, I beseech you, let your anger and your fury turn away from your city Jerusalem which is your holy mountain. For it is because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers that Jerusalem and your people have become a subject of reproach for all those who are around us. 
17 Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of your servant, and his supplications. Cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the sake of the Lord. 
18 O my God, incline your ear and listen. Open your eyes and look on our desolations, look on the city that is called by your name. For it is not because of our righteousness that we are presenting our supplications before you, but because of your great mercies. 
19 O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, consider and act. Do not delay, for your own sake, O my God. For your city and your people are called by your name. 
20 Now I was still speaking and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and I was presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God concerning the holy mountain of my God. [Now in those days the exact identity of Yahweh is still unknown, it is normal for any of the children of Israel to pray for the restoration of the sanctuary of the Lord.] 
21 I was still speaking thus for my prayer when the man Gabriel, whom I had previously seen in the vision, approached me by a swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice. 
22 And he spoke to me and taught me. He said to me: O Daniel, I have come now to give you knowledge and understanding. 
23 The word came out at the beginning of your supplication, and I have come to declare it to you because you are greatly loved. Therefore consider the matter and understand the vision. 
24 It has been decided that there will be seventy weeks [of years] for your people and for your holy city, to finish the transgression and thus make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity by bringing in the everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and the prophecy by anointing the most holy. 
25 Know therefore and understand: From the proclamation of the word to restore and build Jerusalem until the anointed one who is the prince, there will be seven weeks and sixty two weeks. The streets and the wall will be rebuilt, but in times of trouble. [Now there may have been an alteration of the numbers but this does not affect the quality of the teaching.] 
26 And after sixty two weeks, the anointed one will be cut off and will have no successor. And the people of the prince who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary, and its end will come like a flood. It is determined that the devastations will last until the end of the war. 
