1 At that time Michael will stand up, the great prince who stands for the children of your people. And there will be a time of trouble, such as has not been since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time every one of your people whose name is found written in the book [of life] will be saved. 
2 And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake, some for eternal life and some for shame and eternal contempt. 
3 And those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the sky, and those who turn many to righteousness will shine like the stars forever and ever. 
4 And you, O Daniel, keep these words secret, and seal the book until the time of the end. Many people will go here and there looking for true knowledge, and the true knowledge will increase. 
5 Then I Daniel, I looked and behold, two other men were standing there. One on this side of the bank of the river, and the other on the other side of the bank of the river. 
6 And one of them said to the man clothed in linen, who was standing over the waters of the river: How long will it be before these wonders end. 
7 And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was standing over the waters of the river, when he lifted up his right hand and his left hand to heaven, and swore by him who lives forever that it will be for a time, times, and half a time, and that all these things will be finished when the power of the holy people is completely broken [that is to say, when they no longer rely on their own strengths]. 
8 And I heard it, but I did not understand. Then I said: O my lord, what will be the outcome of these things [when all things have come to eternal life and eternal contempt]. 
9 And he said: Go your way, Daniel. For these words are to remain secret and sealed until the time of the end. 
10 Many will purify themselves. They will cleanse and refine themselves. But the wicked will do wickedly, and none of the wicked will understand, but those who are wise will understand.
11 .
12 .
13 .
