1 King Belshazzar made a great feast for a thousand of his nobles, and drank wine in the presence of the thousand. 
2 And when Belshazzar had tasted the wine, he commanded to bring the vessels of gold and of silver that his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem, so that the king, and his nobles, and his wives, and his concubines, could drink from them. 
3 So they brought the gold vessels that had been taken out of the temple of the house of God which was in Jerusalem. And the king, and his nobles, and his wives, and his concubines, drank from them. 
4 They were drinking wine [from those vessels of the house of Yahweh] and they were praising their own gods made of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of iron, and of wood, and of stone.
5 In that same hour the fingers of a human hand appeared near the candlestick, and they wrote on the plaster of the wall of the royal palace, and the king saw the part of the hand that was writing. 
6 Then the countenance of the king was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, and the joints of his waist became loose, and his knees were smiting one against the other. 
7 Then the king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, and the wise men of the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. And the king spoke and said to the wise men of Babylon: Whoever reads this writing and explains it to me will be clothed with purple, and will receive a chain of gold around his neck, and will have the third place in the kingdom. 
8 Then all the wise men of the king came in, but they could neither read the writing nor explain it to the king. 
9 And king Belshazzar was greatly afraid, and his countenance had changed, and his nobles were dismayed. 
10 Now the queen came into the banquet house because of the words of the king and his nobles, and the queen spoke and said: O king, live forever. Do not let your thoughts trouble you, and do not let your countenance be changed. 
11 There is a man in your kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. In the days of your father there were found in that man light, and understanding, and a wisdom like the wisdom of the gods. And king Nebuchadnezzar your father, the king your father, made him chief of the magicians, and of the astrologers, and of the wise men of the Chaldeans, and of the soothsayers. 
12 For it was found in Daniel a superior spirit of knowledge and of understanding, and the ability to explain dreams and riddles, and to solve difficult questions, and the king named him Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will declare the explanation. 
13 Then Daniel was brought before the king, and the king spoke and said to Daniel: Are you that Daniel who are of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom my father the king brought out of Judah. 
14 I have heard concerning you that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that there is found in you light, and understanding, and an extraordinary wisdom. 
15 And now the wise men and the astrologers have been brought before me in order to read this writing and to explain it to me, but they have not been able to explain this thing. 
16 And I have heard concerning you that you are able to explain riddles and to solve difficult questions. Now if you can read the writing and explain it to me, then you will be clothed with purple, and you will receive a chain of gold around your neck, and you will have the third place in the kingdom. 
17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king: Keep your gifts for yourself and give your rewards to another. Nevertheless I will read the writing for the king and explain it to him. 
18 O king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father the kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honor. 
19 And because of the greatness that the Most High had given him, all the peoples of all nations and languages feared and trembled before him. King Nebuchadnezzar was able to kill whoever he wanted and to let those who pleased him live. He exalted whoever he wanted and he humbled whoever he wanted. 
20 But when his heart was lifted up and his mind was hardened in pride, he was cast down from his royal throne and stripped of his honor. 
21 And he was driven from among the sons of men, and his heart became like those of the beasts, and his dwelling was with wild donkeys. He ate grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until he acknowledged that the Most High rules over human kingdoms and gives it to whoever he wants. 
22 And you his son, O Belshazzar, you have not humbled your heart although you knew all these things. 
23 You have exalted yourself against the Lord of heaven. You have caused to bring the vessels of his house before you [when you did not need it since you were already drinking from other vessels], and you have drunk wine from them, you and your nobles, and your wives, and your concubines, while praising the gods made of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of iron, and of wood, and of stone. You were praising those gods who neither see, nor hear, nor understand, and you have not glorified the God in whose hand is your breath and all your ways [despite the fact that you knew that your father exalted him when he had manifested himself to your father]. 
24 Therefore he has sent this part of the hand that has inscribed this writing. 
25 And this is how to read the writing that has been inscribed: Numbered, numbered, weighed, and divided. 
26 And this is the explanation of the thing: Numbered means that God has numbered your kingdom and has ended it. 
27 Weighed means that you have been weighed in the scale and have been found wanting. 
28 Divided means that your kingdom will be divided and given to the Medes and Persians. 
29 Then Belshazzar immediately gave orders, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a gold chain around his neck, and proclaimed that he is the third ruler in the kingdom. 
30 And in that same night, Belshazzar king of the Chaldeans was killed. 
