1 In the third [rather eleventh and final] year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against Jerusalem and besieged it. 
2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with a part of the utensils of the house of God. And Nebuchadnezzar carried the utensils to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and put them in the treasury of his god. 
3 Then the king commanded Ashpenaz the chief of his eunuchs, to bring [from among the captives] some of the children who were of royal seed or of noble birth, and to include the children of Israel among them. 
4 They were to be boys without blemish, and handsome in appearance, and skilful in all kinds of wisdom, and endowed with the knowledge of science, and thus having the capacity to serve in the palace of the king. And they were to be taught the language and the literature of the Chaldeans. 
5 And the king allocated for them a portion of the daily food of his table, and of the wine that he drank. They were to be nourished thus for three years, at the end of which they were to stand before the king. 
6 Now among the children who had been chosen for this purpose, there were Daniel, and Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah. They were from Judah. 
7 And the chief of the eunuchs gave them new names. He gave the name of Belteshazzar to Daniel, and the name of Shadrach to Hananiah, and the name of Meshach to Mishael, and the name of Abednego to Azariah.
8 But Daniel purposed in his heart not to defile himself with the the food given by the king or with the wine that the king drank. Therefore he begged the chief eunuch not to force him to defile himself.
9 Now God had caused Daniel to find kindness and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. 
10 However the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel: I fear my lord the king, and he is the one who has given orders concerning what you must eat and drink. For why should he notice that your face is sadder than the faces of the other children who are with you. And my head will be in danger before the king who can accuse me for this thing.
11 Then Daniel said the following thing to Melzar, the one whom the chief of the eunuchs had set over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. 
12 Test your servants for ten days, I beseech you. Let them give us vegetables to eat, and water to drink. 
13 And after that you will compare our countenances with the countenances of the children who eat of the food of the king, and you will act toward your servants according to what you will see. 
14 And Melzar granted them what they asked for, and he tested them for ten days. 
15 And at the end of ten days, their countenances were more pleasant than those of others, and they were fatter than all the children who were eating the food of the king. 
16 Therefore Melzar continuously took away the food and the wine that was intended for them, and gave them vegetables. 
17 As for these four children, God gave them knowledge, that is to say, wisdom and understanding in all the literatures. And Daniel was able to explain all visions and dreams. 
18 And when the time came, the time that the king had appointed to bring them to him, then the chief of the eunuchs brought all the children before Nebuchadnezzar. 
19 And the king communed with them, and among them there was no one else like Daniel, and Hananiah, and Mishael, and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king [that is to say, he chose them to be at his service]. 
20 And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, about which the king questioned them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers who were in all his kingdom. 
21 And Daniel was thus until the first year of king Cyrus [that is to say, he excelled in wisdom].
