1 Now king Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold which was sixty cubits high and six cubits wide. And he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. [Now every people and even every person had his own way of glorifying the gods in those days, and even the children of Israel had exalted a house which had a holy place and a most holy place.] 
2 Then king Nebuchadnezzar summoned the satraps, and the governors, and the captains, and the judges, and the treasurers, and the counsellors, and the sheriffs, and all the officials of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the statue that king Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
3 Then the satraps, and the governors, and the captains, and the judges, and the treasurers, and the counsellors, and the sheriffs, and all the officials of the provinces, they assembled for the dedication of the statue that king Nebuchadnezzar had set up, and they stood before the statue that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
4 Then an herald cried out with a loud voice: This is what is commanded you, O peoples of all nations and languages. 
5 When you hear the sound of the trumpet, and the flute, and the harp, and the sackbut, and the psaltery, and the dulcimer, and of all kinds of musical instruments, you will fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up. 
6 Whoever does not fall down and worship will be thrown into a fiery furnace that very hour. 
7 Therefore as soon as all the peoples heard the sound of the trumpet, and the flute, and the harp, and the sackbut, and the psaltery, and of all kinds of musical instruments, then all the peoples of all nations and languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. 
8 And some Chaldeans came forward and accused the Jews at that time. 
9 They spoke and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar: O king, live forever. 
10 O king, you have made a decree to announce that every man who will hear the sound of the trumpet, and the flute, and the harp, and the sackbut, and the psaltery, and the dulcimer, and of all kinds of musical instruments, should fall down and worship the golden image. 
11 And whoever does not fall down and worship will be thrown into a fiery furnace. 
12 Now there are certain Jews whom you have set over the governorship of the province of Babylon and who do not honor your commandment, namely Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. O king, they neither serve your gods nor worship the golden image that you have set up. 
13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in his anger and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. And these men were brought before the king. 
14 And Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said to them: Are you doing it voluntarily, Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. Do you refuse to serve my gods and worship the golden image that I have set up. 
15 Now be ready, and at the sound of the trumpet, and the flute, and the harp, and the sackbut, and the psaltery, and the dulcimer, and of all kinds of musical instruments, you will fall down and worship the image that I have made. If you do not worship it, then you will be thrown immediately into a fiery furnace. And who is the god who will deliver you from my hand. [Now in those days when the exact identity of God is not yet revealed, king Nebuchadnezzar can think that a person can serve his own gods without this preventing him from honoring the gods of the king who is established over the whole population.] 
16 Then Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, answered and said to the king: O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. [Now these persons are Jews who believe in Yahweh. And they do not think that they can convince the king Nebuchadnezzar that their God is the only true God who rules the whole earth, and who chose the Jews to be his people, and who forbade them to worship any other god in the law that he gave to Moses.] 
17 Behold our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O king. 
18 But even if our God does not deliver us from your hand, we want you to know that we refuse to serve your gods, O king, and we will not worship the golden image that you have set up. [Now these Jews who are believers know that they will find themselves with their God after the death of their physical bodies, as king Saul was able to speak to the spirit of Samuel through a woman who had the gift of communicating with the dead, and as was mentioned by Job who did not belong to the tribes of Israel.] 
19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with rage, and his face changed when he looked at Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. Therefore he spoke and ordered to heat the furnace seven times more than it should be. [For he thought: I want them to disappear completely.] 
20 And he commanded some of the strongest soldiers of his army to bind Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, and to throw them into the burning fiery furnace. 
21 So these men were bound while having on them their breeches, and their tunics, and their coats, and other clothes, and they were thrown into the burning fiery furnace. 
22 Now the order of the king was urgent, and the furnace was extremely hot, therefore the flames of the fire killed the men who were leading Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. 
23 And these three men, Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the burning fiery furnace. 
24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste. And he spoke and said to his counsellors, 'Did we not throw three men bound into the fire'. And they answered and said to the king: Certainly, O king. 
25 And the king answered and said: Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire [to go inside], and they have no hurt. And the appearance of the fourth is like that of a son of the gods [that is to say, an angel]. 
26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace, and he spoke and said: Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come forth and come here. So Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, they came out of the midst of the fire. 
27 Then the satraps, and the governors, and the captains, and the counsellors of the king, they were together and they saw that the fire had no power over the bodies of those men. The hair of their heads had not been singed, and their coats had not been damaged, and they did not even smell like someone who has been in a fire. 
28 Then Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said: Blessed be the God of Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego. He has sent his angel to save his servants because they have trusted in him rather than obey the commandment of the king, and have preferred to give up their bodies rather than serve any god who is not their own God. 
29 Now this is the command that I give: If any person, of whatever people, or nation, or language, speaks evil of the God of Shadrach, and of Meshach, and of Abednego, then the same will be cut in pieces, and his house will be made a pile of debris [that is to say, we are not even going to wait for this God to take the time to avenge himself]. For there is no other god who is able to perform such a deliverance. 
30 After this, the king promoted Shadrach, and Meshach, and Abednego, in the province of Babylon [that is to say, he extended their authority].
