1 Heavens, give ear and I will speak. Earth, listen to the words of my mouth. 
2 Let my instructions spread like rain and my speech fall like dew, like drizzle on the light greenery and like shower on the dense greenery. 
3 For I will proclaim the name of Yahweh. Give the glory to our God. 
4 He is the mighty God and his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. He is a faithful God and without iniquity, he is just and upright. 
5 If they have corrupted themselves, it is not his fault. For they are not his children, but a false and perverse kind. 
6 Is this how you reward Yahweh, O foolish and unwise people. Is he not your father, the one who redeemed you. For he created you and disciplined you. 
7 Remember the days of the past, consider the years of so many generations. Ask your father and he will show you, ask your elders and they will tell you. 
8 When the Most High divided their inheritance to the nations, when he separated the sons of man. He established the borders of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel. 
9 For the portion of Yahweh is his people. And Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. 
10 He found him in a land of the wilderness, in an isolated and roaring wilderness. He directed him and he taught him, and kept him as the apple of his eye. 
11 And he awakened his nest like an eagle, and floated on his little ones, and spread his wings, and took them and carried them on his wings. God carried his people on the wings of eagles. 
12 For Yahweh alone directed his people, and there was no foreign god with him. 
13 He brought him to the heights of the earth and made him eat the fruits of the fields. And he made him suck honey from the stone and oil from the hard rock. 
14 And butter of cows, and milk of sheep. With the fat of lambs, and of rams fed in Bashan, and of goats. With the fat of wheat grains, and you drank the red liquor of the grapes. 
15 But the one who should have been respectable when he got fat, instead rejected the path with his heel. You got fat and swelled up, and you loaded yourself with fat. Therefore he forsook God who made him, and did not look on the strong God of his salvation. 
16 They provoked him with foreign gods. They provoked him to anger with abominations. 
17 They sacrificed to idols that are not God, to gods that they knew not. New gods that came recently and that their fathers did not fear. 
18 You have forgotten the mighty God who gave birth to you, you have forgotten the God who disciplined you. 
19 And then Yahweh saw this, and he was angry because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters. 
20 And he said, I will hide my face from them, and I will see what their end will be. For they are a perverse kind, children in whom there is no faithfulness. 
21 They have pushed me to jealousy by what is not God. They have provoked me to anger by their futilities. Therefore I will make them jealous of those who are not a people, and I will provoke them to anger by a foolish nation. 
22 For the fire of my anger is kindled. And it will burn to the depths of hell, and devour the earth with its products, and set fire to the foundations of the mountains. 
23 I will spend plagues on them, I will exhaust my arrows against them. 
24 They will be parched by hunger, and consumed by heat and a bitter destruction. And I will send among them the teeth of wild beasts, with the venom of serpents crawling in the dust. 
25 Outside they will perish by the sword, and in the rooms by frightening calamities. It will be the same for the young man as for the young woman, and from the infant to the one of gray hairs. 
26 I would like to say: I will take them away in one breath, and I will make their memory disappear from among men. 
27 But I fear the insults of the enemy, lest their adversaries misunderstand and say: Our hand has been mighty and it is not Yahweh who has done all these things. 
28 For they are a nation without counsel, and there is no understanding in them. 
29 Oh if they were wise, then they would understand the following and consider their last end. 
30 How could an only one pursue a thousand, and two put ten thousand on the run, except that their mighty God had sold them and Yahweh had delivered them up. 
31 For their god is not like our God, even our enemies can judge. 
32 For their vineyard is of the vineyard of Sodom, and of the vineyard of Gomorrah. And their grapes are poisonous grapes, and their bunches are bitter. 
33 Their wine is the venom of serpents, and the cruel poison of asps. 
34 Is this not stored with me, and sealed among my treasures. 
35 Vengeance and reward are mine, and their foot will stumble in due time. For the day of their destruction is near, and what awaits them will not be long.
36 For Yahweh will judge his people, and have pity on his servants when he sees that their power is gone, and that there is no longer either slave or free man. 
37 And he will say, Where are their gods, their mighty God in whom they trusted. 
38 Those gods who ate the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offering. May they rise and help you, and may he be your refuge. 
39 Know now that I, even I, am he, and there is no other God near me. I kill and I give life, I hurt and I heal, and there is no one who can deliver from my hand. 
40 For I lift up my hand to heaven and say: I live forever. 
41 When I sharpen my glittering sword and my hand takes hold of judgment, then I will execute vengeance on my enemies, and I will reward those who hate me. 
42 My sword will devour flesh, and I will make my arrows drunk with blood, with the blood of the killed and the captives when I begin to take revenge on the enemy. 
43 Nations, rejoice with his people. For he will avenge the blood of his servants, and will execute vengeance on his adversaries, and will be merciful to his land and to his people. 
44 And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the presence of the people, he and Hoshea the son of Nun. 
45 When Moses had finished speaking all these words to all Israel. 
46 Then he said to them, Take in your hearts all the words that I testify against you today and teach them to your children, so that they may observe and do all the words of this law. 
47 For it is not an unimportant thing to you, but it is your life. And by this word you will prolong your days in the land where you go beyond the Jordan to possess it. 
48 And on the same day Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
49 Go up into the mountain of Abarim, to the mount Nebo which is in the land of Moab opposite Jericho. And look at the land of Canaan which I give to the children of Israel for a possession. 
50 And you will die on the mount where you will go up and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on mount Hor and was gathered to his people. 
51 Because you have sinned against me in the midst of the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah, at Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin. For you have not sanctified me in the midst of the children of Israel. 
52 Therefore you will see the land before you, but you will not go in. I mean, into the land that I give to the children of Israel.
