1 When you go to war against your enemies, and you see horses and chariots, and a people more numerous than you, then you will not be afraid of them. 
2 When the battle is near, then the priest will advance and will speak to the people. 
3 And the priest will say to them: Listen, O Israel. Today you will fight your enemies. Let not your heart be troubled. Do not be afraid, and do not be amazed, and do not be terrified before them. 
4 For Yahweh your God goes with you to fight for you against your enemies and to save you. 
5 And the officers will then speak to the people and say, What man here has built a new house and has not yet settled there. Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle and another consecrate it. 
6 What man here has planted a vineyard and has not yet eaten of its fruit. Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle and another eat the fruit. 
7 What man here has betrothed a wife and has not yet taken her. Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle and another man take her. 
8 And the officers will continue to speak to the people and say: Who here is afraid and lacks courage. Let him go and return to his house so that his brothers will not become discouraged like him. 
9 And when the officers have finished speaking to the people, then they will appoint captains of the army to lead the people. 
10 When you approach a city to fight against it, then you will first offer them peace. 
11 And if it accepts peace and opens its doors to you, then all the people who are there will be tributaries and slaves to you. 
12 But if it does not accept to make peace with you and if it wants to make war against you, then you will besiege it. 
13 And Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hands, and you will smite with the edge of the sword all the males who are there. 
14 But you will take for yourself the women and the children and the cattle and everything that is in the city, all its spoils. And you will eat the spoils of your enemies which Yahweh your God has given you. 
15 This is what you will do to all the cities that are very far from you and that are not part of the cities of these nations here. 
16 But in the cities of these peoples that Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance, you will not save anyone alive. 
17 But you will utterly destroy them. They are the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as Yahweh your God commanded you. 
18 Lest they teach you to imitate all the abominations that they have done to their gods, and lest you sin against Yahweh your God. 
19 When you make a long siege to capture a city with which you are at war, you will not destroy the trees by hitting them with an ax. For you may eat of them. Therefore you will not cut them down to further in the siege. For the tree of the field is the life of man. 
20 But you can destroy and cut down trees that you know are not for food, and build fortresses against the city that wars against you until you subdue it.
