1 These now are the commandments, and the ordinances, and the laws. This is what Yahweh your God commanded me to teach you, so that you put them into practice in the land where you go to possess it. 
2 And so that you may fear Yahweh your God and keep all his ordinances and his commandments that I command you. You, and your sons, and the sons of your sons, all the days of your life. And so that you may prolong your days. 
3 Listen therefore, O Israel, and take care to put them into practice. So that you may be happy and multiply greatly in the land where milk and honey flow, as Yahweh the God of your fathers promised you. 
4 Listen, O Israel, Yahweh is our God and Yahweh is one. 
5 You will love Yahweh your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength. 
6 And these words which I command you today will be in your heart. 
7 And you will inculcate them diligently in your children, and you will speak of them when you are in your house, and when you travel, and when you are on your bed and when you get up from there. 
8 And you will bind them for a sign on your hands, and they will be like frontlets between your eyes. 
9 And you will write them on the doorposts of your house, and on your gates. 
10 Yahweh your God will bring you into the land which he swore to your fathers Abraham and Isaac and Jacob to give you. And you will possess great and goodly cities which you did not build. 
11 And houses full of goods of all kinds which you have not filled, and cisterns which you have not dug, and vineyards and olive trees which you have not planted. And you will eat and be satisfied. 
12 At that time, be careful not to forget Yahweh who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude. 
13 You will fear Yahweh your God and serve him, and you will swear by his name. 
14 You will not go after other gods, after any of the gods of the peoples who are around you. 
15 Lest the anger of Yahweh your God be kindled against you and destroy you from the face of the earth. For Yahweh your God is a jealous God among you. 
16 You will not tempt Yahweh your God, as you tempted him in Massah. 
17 But you will diligently keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, and his testimonies, and his ordinances, which he has commanded you. 
18 And you will do what is right and what is good in the sight of Yahweh, so that you may be successful, and go in and possess the good land that Yahweh swore to your fathers to give you. 
19 And so that you may drive out all your enemies before you, as Yahweh has said. 
20 When your son asks you and says to you, What mean these testimonies, and ordinances, and laws, which Yahweh our God has commanded you. 
21 Then you will say to your son, We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt, and Yahweh brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. 
22 And Yahweh showed signs and wonders, great and bitter, against Egypt and against Pharaoh and against all his house, before our eyes. 
23 And he brought us out of there, to bring us in, and to give us the land which he swore to our fathers. 
24 Therefore Yahweh has commanded us to do all these ordinances, and to fear Yahweh our God so that we may be happy, and so that he may preserve our lives as he does until today. 
25 Moreover, this will be our righteousness before Yahweh our God, if we take care to keep all these commandments as he has commanded us.
