1 You will keep the month of Abib, and celebrate the passover to Yahweh your God. For it is in the month of Abib that Yahweh your God brought you out of Egypt by night. 
2 You will therefore offer the passover to Yahweh your God, of the flocks and of the herds, in the place that Yahweh your God will choose to cause his name to dwell there. 
3 You will not eat leaven bread with it. During seven days you will eat unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, for you came hastily out of the land of Egypt. And so all your life you will remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt. 
4 And there will be no leaven seen with you throughout your land for seven days. And no part of the victims which you sacrifice on the evening of the first day will be kept overnight until the morning. 
5 You will not sacrifice the passover within any of your gates which Yahweh your God gives you to dwell there. 
6 But in the place that Yahweh your God will choose to set his name, there you will sacrifice the passover in the evening at sunset, at the season of your departure from Egypt. 
7 You will cook the sacrifice and eat it in this place that Yahweh your God will has chosen. And in the morning you will return to your tents. 
8 For six days you will eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there will be a solemn assembly to Yahweh your God and you will not do any work. 
9 And you will count seven weeks. As soon as the sickle is put to the standing grain, you will begin to count seven weeks. 
10 Then you will celebrate the feast of weeks to Yahweh your God, and you will make voluntary offerings to Yahweh your God according to how much Yahweh your God will has blessed you. 
11 And you will rejoice before Yahweh your God in the place that Yahweh your God will has chosen to set his name. You, and your son, and your daughter, and your manservant, and your maidservant, and the Levite who is within your gates, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, all of you. 
12 And you will remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you will observe and put these ordinances into practice. 
13 You will celebrate the feast of tabernacles for seven days, when you have gathered your grain and your wine. 
14 And you will rejoice at this feast, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your manservant, and your maidservant, and the Levite, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, all of you who are within your gates. 
15 During seven days you will celebrate the feast to Yahweh your God in the place that Yahweh will has chosen. For Yahweh your God will bless you in all your crops and in all the work of your hands, and you will be altogether joyful. 
16 Three times in the year, all the males among you will appear before Yahweh your God in the place that he will has chosen: at the feast of unleavened bread, and at the feast of weeks, and at the feast of tabernacles. No one will appear before Yahweh empty-handed. 
17 Every man will give as he is able, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which he will has given you. 
18 You will appoint judges and officers in all the cities that Yahweh your God gives you, throughout all your tribes. And they will judge the people with righteous judgment. 
19 You will not transgress the law. You will have no respect for the appearance of persons, and you will receive no gift. For gifts blind the eyes of the wise and pervert the words of the righteous. 
20 For you will follow justice, so that you may live and possess the land that Yahweh your God gives you. 
21 You will not plant any tree of any kind near the tabernacle of Yahweh your God, wherever you set up the tabernacle. 
22 You will not set up a pillar there either, for Yahweh your God hates this thing.
