1 If you diligently obey the voice of Yahweh your God, and observe and do all his commandments that I command you today, then Yahweh your God will set you on high above all the nations of the earth. 
2 And Here are all the blessings that will come on you, and overtake you, if you obey the voice of Yahweh your God. 
3 You will be blessed in the city, and you will be blessed in the field. 
4 And the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your beasts, and the litters of your herds and of your flocks, all these things will be blessed. 
5 And your basket and your kneading-trough will be blessed. 
6 You will be blessed when you come in, and you will be blessed when you go out. 
7 Yahweh will give you victory over your enemies who rise against you. They will come out against you in one way, and flee before you in seven ways. 
8 Yahweh will command the blessing to be with you in your barns and in all your undertakings. And will bless you in the land that Yahweh your God gives you. 
9 Yahweh will make you a holy people for himself as he has sworn to you, when you keep the commandments of Yahweh your God and walk in his ways. 
10 Then all peoples of the earth will see that you are called by the name of Yahweh and they will fear you. 
11 And Yahweh will fill you with goods, multiplying the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your cattle, and the fruit of your ground, in the land that Yahweh sworn to your fathers to give you. 
12 Yahweh will open to you his good treasure of heaven, to send the rain of your land at the appropriate time, and to bless all the work of your hands. And you will lend to many nations, and you will not borrow. 
13 And Yahweh will make you the head, not the tail. And you will always be superior and you will never be inferior, if you obey the commandments of Yahweh your God that I command you today to observe and do. 
14 But you will not turn right or left from the words I command you today, by going after other gods and serving them. 
15 But if you do not obey the voice of Yahweh, your God, to keep and do all his commandments and ordinances that I command you today, then these are all the curses that will come on you and overtake you. 
16 You will be cursed in the city, and you will be cursed in the field. 
17 And your basket and your kneading-trough will be cursed. 
18 And the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, and the litters of your herd and your flock, all these things will be cursed. 
19 You will be cursed when you come in, and you will be cursed when you go out. 
20 Yahweh will send a curse against you, sorrow and shame in all your undertakings until you are destroyed and perish quickly, because of the wickedness of your deeds by which you have forsaken me. 
21 Yahweh will cause the pestilence to cling to you until it consumes you in the land where you go to possess it. 
22 Yahweh will smite you with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blasting, and with mildew. And they will pursue you until you perish. 
23 And your sky above your head will be of brass, and the ground below you will be of iron. 
24 Yahweh will send dust and ashes on your land instead of rain. It will come down on you from heaven until you are destroyed. 
25 Yahweh will make you defeated by your enemies. You will go out against them in one way, and you will flee before them in seven ways. And you will be scattered throughout all the kingdoms of the earth. 
26 And your corpse will be food for all the birds of the sky and for beasts of the earth, and there will be no one to trouble them. 
27 Yahweh will smite you with the boils of Egypt, and with hemorrhoids, and with scabies, and with itching, from which you will not be able to heal. 
28 Yahweh will smite you with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of the heart. 
29 And you will grope at noon like a blind man in the dark, you will not succeed in your endeavors. And you will always be oppressed and robbed, and there will be no one to help you. 
30 You will have a bride and another man will copulate with her. And you will build a house, and you will not dwell in it. And you will plant a vineyard, and you will not enjoy it. 
31 Your ox will be killed before your eyes, and you will not eat of it. And your donkey will be violently taken before you, and it will not be returned to you. And your sheep will be given to your enemies, and there will be no one to deliver them for you. 
32 Your sons and daughters will be given to another people, and your eyes will always seek them, even when they are dead, and your hand will be powerless. 
33 A people whom you have not known will eat the fruit of your land and all the product of your labor, and you will always be oppressed and crushed. 
34 The spectacle that you will see before your eyes will send you into delirium. 
35 Yahweh will smite you on the knees and on the thighs with a malignant ulcer from which you will not be able to heal, even from the sole of your foot to the top of your head. 
36 Yahweh will bring you and your king whom you will have set over you, to a nation that neither you nor your fathers knew. And there you will serve other gods, made of wood and stone. 
37 And you will be a subject of astonishment, and mockery, and a proverb among all the peoples to whom Yahweh will lead you. 
38 You will carry a lot of seed into your field, and you will have a poor harvest. For the grasshoppers will devour it. 
39 You will plant a vineyard and prune it, and you will neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes. For the worms will eat it. 
40 You will have olive trees throughout all your borders, but you will not anoint yourselves with oil. For your olives will fall. 
41 You will beget sons and daughters, but they will not be yours. For they will go into captivity. 
42 The locusts will devour all your trees and fruits from your land. 
43 The stranger who is among you will always rise above you, and you will always go lower.  
44 He will lend to you and you will not lend to him. He will be the head and you will be the tail. 
45 All these curses will come on you, and they will pursue you and overtake you until you are destroyed. For you will have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God to keep his commandments and his ordinances which he commanded you. 
46 And they will be on you for signs and wonders, and on your seed forever. 
47 For you will not have served Yahweh your God with joy and good heart in the abundance all things. 
48 Therefore you will serve your enemies whom Yahweh will send against you in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in scarcity of all things. And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you. 
49 Yahweh will bring against you a nation from far away, from the ends of the earth, who will swoop down on you with the flight of an eagle. A nation whose language you will not understand. 
50 A nation with a fierce face, and who will have neither respect for the old man nor compassion for the child. 
51 The same will eat the fruit of your cattle and the fruit of your land until you are destroyed. They will leave you no grain, and no wine, and no oil, no litter of your beasts, and no flock, until he has brought you to nought.
52 And he will besiege you in all your cities until your high and strong walls fall, those things on which you will have placed your trust in all your land that Yahweh your God has given you. 
53 And in the midst of the anguish to which your enemy will reduce you during the siege, you will eat the fruit of your body, that is, the flesh of your sons and daughters which Yahweh your God has given you. 
54 The most delicate man among you who is accustomed to tenderness will have a merciless eye for his brother, and for the woman who rests on his chest, and for those of his children whom he still has with him. 
55 For he will not give to any of them the flesh of his children to eat, because there is nothing left for him in the siege and in the anguish with which your enemy will besiege you in all your cities. 
56 The most delicate woman among you who is accustomed to sweetness and would not venture to put the sole of her foot on the ground out of delicacy and tenderness, at that time she will have a pitiless eye for the husband who rests on her breast, and for her son, and for her daughter. 
57 For she will not give them any of the afterbirth that comes out from between her feet nor of the children whom she will give birth to. Since she lacks everything, she will eat them in secret during the siege and the anguish with which your enemy will besiege you in your cities. 
58 If you do not observe and do all the words of this law written in this book, if you do not fear this glorious and awesome name that is Yahweh Your God. 
59 Then Yahweh will make your wounds wonderful. And you and your posterity will be struck by great and lasting plagues, and by painful and stubborn diseases. 
60 And he will bring you all the diseases of Egypt that you were afraid of, and they will cling to you. 
61 And Yahweh will bring on you, until you are destroyed, all kinds of diseases and plagues that are not mentioned in the book of this law. 
62 And you will be left few in number, where you were as many as the stars of heaven, because you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God. 
63 Just as it pleased Yahweh to do good to you and to multiply you, so it will please Yahweh to destroy you and bring you to nought. And you will be uprooted from the land where you go to possess it. 
64 And Yahweh will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other. And there you will serve other gods that neither you nor your fathers knew, made of wood and stone. 
65 And among these nations you will find no rest, and the soles of your feet will have no rest. For Yahweh will give you there a trembling heart that will seek to return until your eyes fall, and a sad spirit. 
66 And your life will hang before you, and you will be afraid night and day, and you will doubt your existence. 
67 In the morning you will say, May it please God that evening is here. And in the evening you will say, May it please God that morning is here. Because of the fear that will fill your heart and the presence of what your eyes will see. 
68 And Yahweh will bring you into Egypt again with ships, and you will follow this path of which I told you, You will no more see it. And there you will sell yourself to your enemies to be bondmen and bondwomen, and there will be no buyer.
