1 When a man marries a woman and she does not find favor in his eyes because he has discovered something shameful in her, then he will write her a letter of divorce, and give it to her and send her out from his house. 
2 And she will leave his house and go her way, and can become another man’s wife. 
3 And if the latter husband hates her and writes her a divorce letter, and puts it in her hand and sends her out from his house. Or if the latter husband dies. 
4 Then the first husband who sent her away will not take her back to be wife after she is defiled. For it is an abomination in the sight of Yahweh, and you will not cause sin to dwell in the land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance. 
5 When a man is newly married, he will not go to the army and no burden will be imposed on him. He will be free at home for a year, and he will rejoice with his wife whom he has taken. 
6 No man will take the lower nor the upper millstone to pledge. For this pledge is the living of his neighbor. 
7 If a man steals one of his brothers from among the children of Israel, and makes him a slave and sells him, then that thief will be put to death. Thus you will remove evil from among you. 
8 Beware of the plague of leprosy. For you must observe diligently and do whatever the priests the Levites will teach you. Be careful to act as I commanded them. 
9 Remember what Yahweh your God did to Miriam on the way after you came out of Egypt. 
10 When you ask your neighbor something you have lent him, you will not enter his house to take his pledge. 
11 But you will stay outside, and the one to whom you lent will bring you the pledge outside. 
12 And if this man is poor the you will not sleep while holding his pledge. 
13 But you will return the pledge to him at sunset, so that he may sleep in his garment and bless you. And this will be credited to you as righteousness before Yahweh your God. 
14 You will not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether of your brothers or of foreigners who live in your country in one of your gates. 
15 But you will give him his daily wage before sunset because he is poor, and this is what sustains his life. Lest he cry to Yahweh against you and you bear a sin. 
16 The fathers will not be put to death for their children, and children will not be put to death for their fathers. But every one will be put to death for one's own sin. 
17 You will not infringe the rights of the stranger or the fatherless, and you will not take the widow's clothing as pledge. 
18 You will remember that you was a slave in Egypt, and how Yahweh your God set you free. Therefore I command you to do this. 
19 When you harvest your field and forget a sheaf in the field, then you will not come back to take it. It will be for the stranger, and for the fatherless, and for the widow, so that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. 
20 When you shake your olive trees, you will not pick the fruits that remain on the branches. But they will be for the stranger, and for the fatherless, and for the widow. 
21 When you harvest your vineyard, you will not gather the grapes that remain there. But they will be for the stranger, and for the fatherless, and for the widow. 
22 And you will remember that you was a slave in the land of Egypt. Therefore I command you to do this thing.
