1 You will observe and do all the commandments that I command you today, so that you may live, and multiply, and go in, and possess the land that Yahweh swore to your fathers. 
2 Remember all the way by which Yahweh your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness to humble you, and to test you, and to know what was in your heart and whether or not you would keep his commandments. 
3 Therefore he has humbled you, and has made you hungry, and has fed you with manna which you did not know and which your fathers did not known, in order to teach you that man does not live only by bread but by every word that comes out of the mouth of Yahweh. 
4 Your clothe has not been damaged on you, and your foot has not swollen during these forty years. 
5 Know therefore in your heart that Yahweh your God disciplines you as a man disciplines his child. 
6 You will observe the commandments of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways and to fear him. 
7 For Yahweh your God will bring you into a good land. A land where there are rivers and springs of water, and depths springing up in the valleys and in the mountains. 
8 A land of wheat, and of barley, and of vineyards, and of fig trees, and of pomegranate trees. A land of olive oil and honey. 
9 A land where you will eat bread in abundance, where you will lack nothing. A land whose stones are iron, and from whose mountains you will dig brass. 
10 And when you eat and are satisfied, you will bless Yahweh your God for the good land which he has given you. 
11 Be careful not to forget Yahweh your God by not keeping his commandments, and his laws, and his ordinances, which I command you this day. 
12 Lest when you eat and are satisfied, and build goodly houses and dwelt there. 
13 And lest when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold increase, and all that you have increase. 
14 Lest at that time your heart rise up and you forget Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. 
15 The one who made you walk in the great and terrible wilderness, where there are fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty grounds without water. The one who brought forth water for you out of the rock of flint. 
16 The one who fed you in the wilderness with manna which your fathers knew not, in order to humble you and test you, and to do you good at your latter end. 
17 And lest you say in your heart, My strength and the power of my own hand have acquired these riches for me. 
18 But remember Yahweh your God, for it is he who will give you strength to acquire riches so that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers, as he has done to this day. 
19 And if you forget Yahweh your God, and walk after other gods to serve them and to worship them, then I attest to you this day that you will surely perish. 
20 You will perish like the nations that Yahweh destroys before you, because you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God.
