1 The priests the Levites and the entire tribe of Levi will have neither part nor inheritance with Israel. They will eat the sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh, and the inheritance of Yahweh. 
2 They will have no inheritance among their brothers, for Yahweh is their inheritance as he has told them. 
3 And this will be the right of the priests from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be a bullock or a sheep: the shoulder and the jaws and the stomach will be given to the priest. 
4 And you will also give him the firstfruits of your grain, and of your wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep. 
5 For Yahweh your God has chosen him from among all your tribes, to stand and serve in the name of Yahweh, he and his sons forever. 
6 When a Levite comes out of one of your cities of Israel where he lives, and goes according to the fullness of his desire to stay in the place that Yahweh has chosen for a dwelling place. 
7 Then he will do service in the name of Yahweh your God, like all his brothers the Levites who stand there before Yahweh. 
8 He will receive for his food a portion equal to theirs, and will also benefit of the income from the sale of his possessions. 
9 When you enter the land that Yahweh your God gives you, you will not learn to imitate the abominations of these nations. 
10 Let no one be found among you who puts his son or daughter through the fire [for an offering to certain gods in order to obtain their favor], or who uses divination, or who observes the times or movements of birds in the sky to predict human behavior, or a sorcerer [who does not only practice my commandments]. 
11 Or an enchanter, or a person who communicates with spirits [and who does not only practice my commandments], or a soothsayer who does not only practice my commandments, or a necromancer. 
12 For all those who do such things are an abomination to Yahweh, and it is because of these abominations that Yahweh your God will cast them out before you. 
13 You will belong entirely to Yahweh your God. 
14 For these nations that you will possess, they listen to those who observe the times and to the sorcerers. But as for you, Yahweh your God will not allow you. 
15 Yahweh your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, one of your brothers. You will listen to him. 
16 According to all that you asked to Yahweh your God in Horeb, in the day of the assembly when you said: Let me no more hear the voice of Yahweh my God, nor see no more this great fire, so that I do not die. 
17 And Yahweh said to me, What they have said is good. 
18 I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he will speak to them whatever I command him. 
19 And if anyone does not listen to my words which he will speak in my name, then I will demand it from him. 
20 But the prophet who will speak presumptuously in my name a word that I did not command him to speak, or who will speak in the name of other gods, the same prophet will die. 
21 And if you say in your hearts, How will we know the word that Yahweh has not spoken. 
22 When a prophet speaks in the name of Yahweh, if the thing does not happen or come true then it is a thing that Yahweh has not spoken, and the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. Therefore you will not be afraid of him.
