1 Now this is the blessing by which Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. 
2 Yahweh came from Sinai, and rose from Seir to them. He shone from mount Paran, and he came with ten thousand saints. And at his right hand was a fiery law for them. 
3 Yes, he loves people. All your saints are in your hand, and they stood at your feet to receive your words. 
4 Moses commanded us a law for an inheritance of the assembly of Jacob. 
5 He [Yahweh] was king among the righteous, when the heads of the people and the tribes of Israel were assembled. 
6 Let Reuben live and not die, although his men are few in number. 
7 And he blessed Judah and said: Hear the voice of Judah O Yahweh, and bring him to his people. His hands will suffice for him, and you will help him against his enemies. 
8 And concerning Levi he said, Your Thummim and Urim are with your holy one, whom you tested at Massah and against whom you strove at the waters of Meribah. 
9 He says of his father and of his mother, I have not seen them. And he knows neither his brothers nor his own children. For he observes your word and keep your covenant. 
10 They teach Jacob your judgments and Israel your law. They will put incense before your face and burnt offering on your altar. 
11 Bless his strength O Yahweh, and accept the work of his hands. Smite through the waist of those who rise against him, and of those who hate him, so that they may not rise again. 
12 And concerning Benjamin he said, The beloved of Yahweh will dwell in safety by him. Yahweh will cover him all the day long and dwell between his shoulders. 
13 And concerning Joseph he said, His land is blessed by Yahweh for the sweetness of the sky, and for the dew, and for the depth located below. 
14 And for the sweet fruits of the sun, and for the sweet fruits of the moon. 
15 And for the sweetness of the top of the ancient mountains, and for the sweetness of the eternal hills. 
16 And for the sweetness of the land and its abundance. And the grace of him who appeared in the bush will come on the head of Joseph, on the top of the head of him who was separated from his brothers. 
17 Similar to a firstborn bullock of his herd, he has majesty. His horns are the horns of a wild ox and with them he will smite the peoples together, to the ends of the earth. These are the ten thousand of Ephraim, and these are the thousands of Manasseh. 
18 And concerning Zebulun he said: Rejoice Zebulun, in your goings out. And you Issachar, in your tents. 
19 They will call the people to the mountain, and there they will offer the sacrifices of righteousness. For they will suck the abundance of the sea and the treasures hidden in the sand.
20 And concerning Gad he said, Blessed is he who enlarges Gad. Gad dwells like a lion, which catches even the arm and the head from its prey. 
21 And he provided for himself at the beginning, because a part of the Lawgiver's portion was hidden there. But he will come with the heads of the people, to execute the justice of Yahweh and his judgments against Israel. 
22 And concerning Dan he said, Dan is a young lion who leaps out of Bashan. 
23 And concerning Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favor and filled with the blessing of Yahweh, you will take possession of the west and the south. 
24 And concerning Asher he said, Asher will be blessed with children. He will please his brothers and dip his foot in oil. 
25 Your shoes will be of iron and brass, and your strength will last as long as you live. 
26 There is no one like God, O people of the righteousness. He rides on the heavens for your help, and on the clouds in his glory. 
27 The eternal God is your refuge, and under his arms you will live forever. He will cast out the enemy from before you and say, Destroy them.
28 And then Israel who is the spring water of Jacob will dwell alone in security in a land of wheat and wine. And his heavens will drop dew. 
29 Blessed are you, O Israel. Who is like you, O people saved by Yahweh. He is the shield of your help and the sword of your glory. Therefore, your enemies will fail before you, and you will tread their high places.
