1 Then Moses called all Israel and said to them: Listen, O Israel, the ordinances and the laws that I declare to you today. Learn them, and put them into practice carefully. 
2 Yahweh our God made a covenant with us in Horeb which is Sinai. 
3 Yahweh did not make this covenant with our fathers in ancient times, but with us who are here today all alive. 
4 And Yahweh spoke to you face to face on the mountain out of the midst of the fire. 
5 At that time I stood between Yahweh and you, to declare to you the word of Yahweh. For you were afraid of the fire, and you did not go up into the mountain. And he spoke to you in the following words. 
6 I am Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the the house of servitude. 
7 You will have no other gods before my face. 
8 You will not make for yourself any graven image or any likeness of what is in heaven above, or of what is on the earth below, or of what is in the waters lower than the ground, to worship it. 
9 You will not bow down to them, nor serve them. For I Yahweh your God am a jealous God, who punishes the iniquity of the fathers on the children up to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. 
10 And I have mercy even on the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments. 
11 You will not take the name of Yahweh your God in vain. For Yahweh will not leave unpunished the one who take his name in vain. 
12 Keep the sabbath day to sanctify it, as Yahweh your God has commanded you. 
13 For six days you will labor and do all your work. 
14 But the seventh day is the sabbath of Yahweh your God. In it you will not do any work, nor you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your servant, nor your maidservant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor the stranger who is within your gates, so that your manservant and your maidservant may rest as you do. 
15 For you will remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and that Yahweh your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm. Therefore Yahweh your God commanded you to keep the sabbath day. 
16 Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God has commanded you, so that your days may be long and you may be happy on the land that Yahweh your God has given you. 
17 You will not kill. 
18 You will not commit adultery. 
19 You will not steal.
20 You will not bear false witness against your neighbor. 
21 You will not covet your neighbor's wife. Neither will you desire your neighbor's house, nor his field, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor any thing that belongs to your neighbor. 
22 These are the words Yahweh spoke to all your multitude in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire and the cloud and the darkness, with a great voice. And he did not add anything to them. And he wrote them on two tablets of stone, and gave them to me. 
23 And when you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, then you came to me, all the chiefs of your tribes and your elders. 
24 And you said: Behold Yahweh our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we heard his voice out of the midst of the fire. Today we have seen that God speaks with man without killing him. 
25 Now therefore why should we die. For this great fire will devour us. If we continue to hear the voice of Yahweh our God, then we will die. 
26 For what flesh was there ever, who heard like us the voice of the living God speaking of the midst of fire, and who remained alive. 
27 Go yourself near and listen to everything that Yahweh our God will say. And then you will declare to us what Yahweh our God has spoken to you. And we will hear it and do it. 
28 And Yahweh heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me. And Yahweh said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, what this people have spoken to you. All that they have spoken is good. 
29 Oh if they could always have this same heart to fear me and to keep all my commandments, so that they and their children would be happy forever. 
30 Go and say to them: Return to your tents. 
31 But you will stay here with me, and I will tell you all the commandments, and the ordinances, and the laws, what you will teach them so that they may practice it in the land that I give them to possess it. 
32 Therefore you will take care to do what Yahweh your God has commanded you. You will not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
33 But you will walk in all the ways that Yahweh your God has commanded you, so that you may live and be happy, and prolong your days in the land that you will possess.
