1 When you enter the land that Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance, and possess it and dwell there. 
2 Then you will take of the first fruits of all the fruits of the ground that you produce in the land that Yahweh your God gives you. And you will put them in a basket, an bring it to the place where Yahweh your God will have chosen to set his name there. 
3 And you will come to the priest who will be in those days, and say to him: I acknowledge today to Yahweh your God that I have come in the land that Yahweh swore to our fathers to give us. 
4 Then the priest will receive the basket from your hand, and set it down before the altar of Yahweh your God. 
5 And you will speak again and say before Yahweh your God: My father was a Syrian who went to Egypt with few people when he was ready to perish by hunger. And he stayed there, and there he became a great and powerful and numerous people. 
6 And the Egyptians mistreated us and oppressed us, and they subjected us to harsh servitude. 
7 But when we cried to Yahweh the God of our fathers, Yahweh heard our voice and looked at our affliction, and at our labour, and at our oppression. 
8 And Yahweh brought us out of Egypt with mighty hand, and an outstretched arm, and with terribleness both in signs and wonders. 
9 And he has brought us into this place and has given us this land, a land where milk and honey flow. 
10 And now behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land which you have given me, O Yahweh. And then you will place it before Yahweh your God, and worship before Yahweh your God. 
11 And you will rejoice in all the good things that Yahweh your God has given you and your household. You will rejoice with the Levite and with the stranger who is among you. 
12 When you have finished raising all the tithe of your produce in the third year which is the year of tithing, then you will give it to the Levite, and to the stranger, and to the fatherless, and to the widow, so that they may eat and be satisfied within your gates. 
13 And you will say before Yahweh your God: I have brought the holy things out of my house, and have given them to the Levites, and to the strangers, and to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandments which you have commanded me. I have not transgressed or forgotten any of your commandments. 
14 I did not eat any of these things during my mourning, I did not dispose of any of them for impure use, and I did not give any of them on the occasion of a death. But I have obeyed the voice of Yahweh my God, and I have done according to all that you commanded me. 
15 Look from your holy habitation, from the heavens, and bless your people Israel and the land that you have given us as you swore to our fathers, a land where milk and honey flow. 
16 Today Yahweh your God commands you to do these laws and these ordinances. You will observe them and put them into practice with all your heart and with all your soul. 
17 Today you have set up Yahweh to be your God so that you will walk in his ways, and keep his ordinances and his commandments and his laws, and obey his voice. 
18 And Yahweh has appointed you today to be a people for his inheritance as he has promised you, so that you should keep all his commandments. 
19 And to rise you in praise and in name and in glory, above all nations which he made. And so that you should be a people holy to Yahweh your God, as he has said.
