1 You will not offer to Yahweh your God a bullock or a sheep which has any blemish or deformity. For it is an abomination to Yahweh your God. 
2 If there be among you in any of the cities that Yahweh your God gives you, a man or a woman doing evil in the sight of Yahweh your God by transgressing his covenant. 
3 The one who pursues other gods to serve and worship them, gods such as the sun or the moon or the whole armies of heaven. And thus he does what I ordered not to do.  
4 When it is announced to you and you have heard it, then you will inquire diligently. And if the thing is true, and it is established that such an abomination was committed in Israel. 
5 Then you will bring to your gates the man or woman who has committed this wickedness. And whether it be a man or a woman, you will stone them with stones until they die. 
6 Whoever deserves death will be put to death on the testimony of two or three witnesses. But he will not be put to death on the testimony of only one witness. 
7 And the hand of the witnesses will be first on him to kill him, and then the hand of all the people. So you will remove evil from your midst. 
8 If a case seems too difficult to judge, related to murder or argument or injury, and if it causes controversy within your gates, then you will get up and go to the place that Yahweh your God will has chosen [to put his name there. It is the place where will be the house of Yahweh, that is to say, the place where the tent of meeting will be set up]. 
9 And you will come to the priests the Levites, and to him who will serve as judge in those days. And you will consult them, and they will make known to you the judgment. 
10 And you will do according to what they tell you in the place that Yahweh will has chosen. And you will be careful to act according to everything that they will tell you. 
11 You will obey the law that they will teach you and you will do the judgment that they will tell you. You will not turn aside to the right or to the left from the decision that they will show you. 
12 The man who out of pride will not listen either to the priest who stands before Yahweh your God to serve there or to the judge, that man will be put to death. And thus you will remove evil from the midst of Israel. 
13 And all the people will hear and fear, and no longer act presumptuously. 
14 When you come into the land that Yahweh your God gives you, and possess it, and dwell there. If you say: I will set over me a king like all the nations that are around me. 
15 Then you will set over you a king chosen by Yahweh your God. And you will take a king from among your brothers. You will not place over you a stranger who is not your brother. 
16 But he will not multiply horses for himself. And he will not bring the people back to Egypt to multiply the horses, knowing that Yahweh said to you: You will not go back there again. 
17 And he will not have many wives lest his heart turn away. And he will not gather much silver and gold for himself. 
18 And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom then he will write for himself, by the priests the Levites, a copy of this law in a book. 
19 And it will be with him, and he will read it every day of his life. So that he may learn to fear Yahweh his God and to keep all the words of this law, and these ordinances to do them. 
20 So that his heart may not be exalted above his brothers, nor turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left. And thus he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his sons, in the midst of Israel.
