1 You are the children of Yahweh your God. You will not make any cut in your flesh, and you will not make any baldness on your head from between your eyes [or in any other fancy way] for a dead man. 
2 For you are a people holy to Yahweh your God. And Yahweh your God has chosen you to be a people for his inheritance, above all the peoples who are on the earth. 
3 You will not eat any abominable thing. 
4 These are the animals that you will eat: the ox, and the sheep, and the goat. 
5 And the hart, and the roebuck, and the fallow deer, and the wild goat, and the antelope, and the wild ox, and the chamois. 
6 And every beast that has a split hoof and whose hoof is split in two, and that chews the cud. You will eat them. 
7 But you will not eat of those that chew the cud only, or that only have a cloven hoof. Thus you will not eat the camel, and the hare, and the coney. For they chew the cud but do not have a divided hoof. They are unclean for you. 
8 And the pig, because the hoof is divided but it does not chew the cud. It is unclean for you. You will not eat of their flesh nor touch their carcasses. 
9 The following are the animals that you will eat. Of all that are in the waters, you will eat those that have fins and scales. 
10 But you will not eat of those that do not have fins and scales. They are unclean for you. 
11 You will eat every clean bird. 
12 But these are the ones you will not eat: the eagle, and the goshawk, and the osprey. 
13 And the glede, and the kite, and the vulture, with their kind. 
14 And the raven with all its kind. 
15 And the ostrich, and the nighthawk, and sea-mew, and the hawk with its kind. 
16 And the little owl, and the great owl, and the redshank. 
17 And the pelican, and the swan, and the cormorant. 
18 And the stork, and the heron with its kind, and the lapwing, and the bat. 
19 And all winged creeping things are unclean for you, they will not be eaten. 
20 But you will eat every clean bird. 
21 You will not eat of any dead animal that has not been killed for this purpose. You will give it to the foreigner who is within your gates and he may eat it, or you may sell it to a stranger. For you are a people holy to Yahweh your God. You will not cook a kid in its mother's milk. 
22 You will give the tithe which is the tenth part of all the produce of your seeds, of what your field produces each year. 
23 Concerning theses tithes of your grain, and of your wine, and of your oil, and of the firstborns of your herd and of your flock. You will eat their tithes before Yahweh your God, in the place that he will choose to cause his name to dwell there. And thus you will learn to always fear Yahweh your God. 
24 When Yahweh your God blesses you, if the way is too long for you and you cannot carry your tithe because the place is far from you, the place that Yahweh your God will choose to set his name there. 
25 Then you will exchange your tithe for money, and you will hold this money in your hand, and you will go to the place that Yahweh your God will has chosen. 
26 And there you will buy with the money whatever your heart desires. Whether oxen, or sheep, or wine, or strong drinks, whatever pleases you. And you will eat it before Yahweh your God, and you will rejoice, both you and your family. 
27 And you will not abandon the Levite who is within your gates, for he has neither portion nor inheritance with you. 
28 At the end of three years, you will bring out the entire tithe of your produce of the same year, and you will place it in your gates. 
29 Then the Levite who has neither part nor inheritance with you will come, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow. All these persons who are within your gates, and they will eat and be satisfied, so that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work that you undertake.
