1 If a killed man is found lying in a field of the land that Yahweh your God gives you for possession, and it is not know who has killed him. 
2 Then your elders and your judges will measure the distance between the corpse and the surrounding towns. 
3 And from the town nearest to the corpse, the elders who are there will take a heifer that has not been used in work and that has not pulled the yoke. 
4 And theses elders of that town will bring this heifer to a stony valley which is neither plowed nor sown, and cut off the neck of the heifer there in the valley. 
5 Then the priests the sons of Levi will come. For Yahweh your God has chosen them to serve him and to bless in the name of Yahweh, and by their word every dispute and every injury will be judged. 
6 And all the elders of that town nearest to the corpse will wash their hands over the heifer that has been beheaded in the valley. 
7 And they will testify and say, Our hands have not shed this blood and our eyes have not seen it flow. 
8 O Yahweh, be merciful to your people Israel whom you have redeemed, and do not impute innocent blood to your people Israel. And the blood will be forgiven them. 
9 So you must remove innocent blood from your midst by doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh. 
10 When you make war against your enemies, if Yahweh your God delivers them into your hands and you take captives. 
11 Maybe you will see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you will lust after her and want to take her as your wife. 
12 Then you will bring her inside your house, and she will shave her head and do her nails. 
13 And she will take off the clothes that she was taken with, and she will live in your house, and she will mourn her father and mother for a month. And after that, you will go to her and marry her, and she will be your wife. 
14 And if she stops pleasing you, then you may let her go wherever she wants but you will not sell her for money nor treat her like a slave because you will have humiliated her. 
15 If a man who has two wives loves one and does not love the other, and they gave him children, both the woman whom he loves and the other whom he does not love. And if his first son is from the woman whom he does not love. 
16 Then at the time when he divides his possessions between his sons for inheritances, he cannot consider the son of the woman whom he loves as the firstborn instead of the firstborn who is the son of the woman he whom does not love. 
17 But he will recognize the son of the woman he does not love as his firstborn, and will give to this son a double portion of his possession. For this son is the first of his strength, and to him belongs the right of the firstborn. 
18 If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who does not listen to his father’s voice or his mother’s voice, and although they have disciplined him he continues not to obey them. 
19 Then his father and mother will take him and bring him to the elders of his town, and to the gates of the place where he lives. 
20 And they will say to the elders of his town, Here is our son who is stubborn and rebellious, and who does not obey our admonition. He is a rioter and a drunkard. 
21 And all the men of his town will stone him with stones to death. You will thus remove the evil from among you so that all Israel may hear and fear. 
22 And if a man has committed a sin worthy of death and is put to death, and if you hang him on a tree. 
23 Then his corpse will not spend the night on the wood, but you will bury him on the same day. For the curse of God is on him who is hanged. Therefore you will not defile the land that Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance.
