1 When all these things happen to you, the blessing and the curse that I have set before you, then you will think about them in your heart among all the nations where Yahweh your God has driven you. 
2 And you will return to Yahweh your God, and obey his voice in all that I command you today, you and your children, with all your heart and with all your soul. 
3 Then Yahweh your God will bring back your captives and will have compassion on you. And he will come again and gather you from all the peoples among whom Yahweh your God has scattered you. 
4 Even though you have been thrown to the other end of heaven, from there Yahweh your God will gather you, and from there he will take you. 
5 And Yahweh your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, and you will possess it. And he will do you good and multiply you above your fathers. 
6 And Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your seed, so that you may love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and that you may live. 
7 And Yahweh your God will put all these curses on your enemies, and on those who hate and persecute you. 
8 And you will return and obey the voice of Yahweh, and do all his commandments which I command you today. 
9 And Yahweh your God will fill you with good things in all the work of your hands, and in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your ground for your wealth. For Yahweh will delight again in your happiness, as he delighted in that of your fathers. 
10 Because you will obey the voice of Yahweh your God, keeping his commandments and ordinances that are written in the book of this law, when you return to Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
11 For this commandment that I command you today is not hidden from you, and it is not far away.
12 It is not in heaven so that you should say: Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us, and make us hear it so that we can put it into practice. 
13 Neither is it beyond the sea so that you should say: Who will go over the sea for us, and bring it to us, and make us hear it so that we can do it. 
14 But the word is very close to you, and even in your mouth and in your heart, so that you may put it into practice. 
15 Behold today I have set before you life with good, and death with evil. 
16 And I command you today to love Yahweh your God, and to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his ordinances, and his laws, so that you may live and multiply, and that Yahweh your God may bless you in the land where you go to possess it. 
17 But if your heart turns away and you do not obey, and let yourself be seduced to worship and serve other gods. 
18 I declare to you today that you will surely perish and not prolong your days in the land for which you will go beyond the Jordan to possess it. 
19 Today I call the heaven and the earth to witness against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore choose life, so that you and your posterity may live. 
20 And love Yahweh your God to obey his voice and to cling to him. For he is your life and the length of your days. So that you may dwell in the land that Yahweh swore to your fathers Abraham and Isaac and Jacob to give them.
