1 When Yahweh your God bring you into the land where you go to possess it, and cast out many nations before you, the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and more powerful than you. 
2 And when Yahweh your God delivers them to you and you smite them, then you will completely destroy them because you will not make an alliance with them. You will have no compassion for them. 
3 You will not make marriages with them. You will not give your daughters to their sons, and you will not take their daughters for your sons. 
4 For they will cause your sons to turn away from me and to serve other gods. And then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you and destroy you quickly. 
5 But this is how you will act toward them: you will overthrow their altars and break their pillars, and you will tear down their idols and burn their graven images with fire. 
6 For you are a holy people to Yahweh your God. Yahweh, your God, has chosen you to be a people of his possession among all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. 
7 It is not because you were more numerous than all the peoples that Yahweh loved you and chose you. For you were the fewest of all peoples. 
8 And because Yahweh loved you, and because he wanted to keep the oath that he swore to your fathers, then Yahweh brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh the king of Egypt. 
9 Know therefore that Yahweh your God is the only God. The faithful God who keeps his covenant and his mercy up to the thousandth generation of those who love him and keep his commandments. 
10 And he retaliates directly against those who hate him by their behavior to bring them to destruction. He will not forget the one who hates him and will repay him to his face. 
11 Therefore keep the commandments and the ordinances and the laws which I command you today, and put them into practice. 
12 For if you listen to these laws and observe them and do them, then Yahweh your God will keep with you the covenant and mercy that he swore to your fathers. 
13 And he will love you, and bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land. He will bless your grain, and your wine, and your oil, and your flock, and the increase of thy cattle in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you. 
14 You will be blessed above all peoples, and there will be neither barren man nor woman among you, nor barren beast among your cattle. 
15 And Yahweh will take away all sickness from you. And he will not send you any of the evil diseases of Egypt that you know about, but he will send them on those who hate you. 
16 Therefore you will devour all the peoples whom Yahweh your God will deliver to you. Your eye will not pity them and you will not serve their gods otherwise it will be your destruction. 
17 If you say in your heart: These nations are more numerous than I, how can I drive them out. 
18 Then do not fear them, but remember what Yahweh your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt. 
19 The great trials that your eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm by which Yahweh your God has brought you out. This is how Yahweh your God will do to all the peoples that you fear. 
20 Moreover, Yahweh your God will send hornets against them until those who will have escaped and hidden themselves from you are destroyed. 
21 Do not be afraid because of them. For Yahweh your God is among you, the great and terrible God. 
22 And Yahweh your God will cast out these nations from before you little by little. You will not consume them at once, lest the beasts of the field multiply against you. 
23 And Yahweh your God will deliver them to you, and will destroy them with a mighty destruction until they come to nought. 
24 And he will deliver their kings into your hands, and you will destroy their names from under heaven. None will be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them. 
25 You will burn the graven images of their gods in the fire. And you will not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest it become a trap for you. For it is an abomination before Yahweh your God. 
26 Therefore you will not bring an abomination into your house lest you become cursed as it is accursed. But you will utterly abhor it and consider it the most abominable because it is accursed.
