1 Then Moses went and said the following words to all Israel. 
2 Today I am one hundred and twenty years old, and I can no more go out and come in. And Yahweh has said to me: You will not go beyond this Jordan. 
3 Yahweh your God himself will go before you. He will destroy these nations before you, and you will possess them. And Joshua will go before you as Yahweh said. 
4 And Yahweh will do to these nations what he did to Sihon and Og kings of the Amorites, and to their land which he destroyed. 
5 And Yahweh will give them before you, so that you may do to them according to every commandment that I have commanded you. 
6 Be strong and have courage. Do not fear and do not be discouraged before them. For Yahweh your God himself will go with you. He will not forsake you and he will not fail you. 
7 And Moses called Joshua and said to him in sight of all Israel, Be strong and have courage. For you will go with this people into the land that Yahweh swore to their fathers to give them, and you will cause them to inherit it. 
8 And Yahweh himself will go before you. He will be with you. He will not forsake you and he will not fail you. Therefore do not fear and do not be discomforted. 
9 And Moses wrote this law, and gave it to the priests the sons of Levi who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and to all the elders of Israel. 
10 And Moses commanded them and said, Every seven years at the time of the year of freedom, and at the feast of tabernacles. 
11 When all Israel comes to appear before Yahweh your God in the place that he will has chosen, then you will read this law before all Israel so that they may hear it. 
12 You will gather the people together. Men, and women, and children, and the strangers who are within your gates, so that they may learn and fear Yahweh your God, and observe and do all the words of this law. 
13 And so that their children who have not known it may hear it, and learn to fear Yahweh your God as long as they live in the land where you go beyond the Jordan to possess it. 
14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, Behold the time of your death draws near. Call Joshua and come in the tent of meeting, and I will give him my orders. And Moses and Joshua went and stood in the tent of meeting. 
15 And Yahweh appeared in the tent of meeting in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
16 And Yahweh said to Moses, Behold you will sleep with your fathers, and this people will rise up and play the whore with the foreign gods of the land where they go to dwell. And they will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them. 
17 In that day my anger will be kindled against them. And I will forsake them and hide my face from them. And they will be devoured, and many adversities and tribulations will come on them. And then they will say: Are not these troubles come on me because God is not with me. 
18 But I will surely hide my face in that day, because of all the evil that they will have done in turning to other gods. 
19 Now therefore write this song for you, and teach it to the children of Israel. Put it in their mouths, so that this song may be my witness against the children of Israel. 
20 For I will bring them into the land that I swore to their fathers, a land where milk and honey flow. And they will eat and be satisfied, and will become fat. Then they will turn to other gods and serve them, and they will despise me and break my covenant. 
21 And then when many adversities and tribulations will come on them, this song will answer them to their faces as a witness. For it will not be forgotten from the mouth of their posterity. For I know their imagination which they are already designing now, before I have brought them into the land that I have sworn. 
22 So Moses wrote this song on the same day and taught it to the children of Israel. 
23 And God commanded Joshua the son of Nun, and said: Be strong and have courage. For you will bring the children of Israel into the land that I have sworn to them, and I will be with you. 
24 And when Moses had completely finished writing the words of this law in the book. 
25 Then Moses commanded with the following words to the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. 
26 Take the book of this law and put it on the side of the ark of the covenant of Yahweh your God, and it will be there as a witness against you. 
27 For I know your rebellion and your stiff neck. Behold I am still alive with you today, and you are already rebellious against Yahweh. How much more after I die. 
28 Gather me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, so that I may speak these words in their presence and call the heaven and the earth to witness against them. 
29 For I know that after my death you will corrupt yourselves and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you. And then evil will surely come on you because of your wickedness in the sight of Yahweh, when you provoke him to anger through the work of your hands. 
30 And Moses spoke the whole words of the following song in the presence of the whole assembly of Israel.
