1 The one whose testicle is crushed or whose private member is cut off will not enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
2 A bastard [one who is born of an illicit union] will not enter the assembly of Yahweh. Even to his tenth generation he will not enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
3 The Ammonites and the Moabites will not enter the assembly of Yahweh. Even to their tenth generation and forever, they will not enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
4 For they did not come to meet you with bread and water in the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they have hired Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor in Mesopotamia to curse you. 
5 But Yahweh your God would not listen to Balaam, and Yahweh your God turned the curse into a blessing for you because Yahweh your God loves you. 
6 Therefore you will not worry about their prosperity or their well-being as long as you live, forever. 
7 You will not abhor the Edomite for he is your brother, and you will not abhor the Egyptian because you were a stranger in his country. 
8 And the children born to them in their third generation will enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
9 When camping against your enemies, beware of all evil things. 
10 If there is a man among you who is unclean because of an accident at night, then he will leave the camp and not enter the camp. 
11 And in the evening he will wash himself in the water, and at sunset he will return to the camp. 
12 You will have a special place outside the camp, and that is where you will go when you are unclean. 
13 You will have a special instrument among your weapons to dig when you are outside and want to sit down, and then cover your excrement before returning to the camp. 
14 For Yahweh your God walks in the midst of your camp to protect you and to give into your hands your enemies before you. Therefore your camp will be holy, lest Yahweh sees an unclean thing in you and turns away from you. 
15 You will not give back to his master a servant who escaped from his master to join you. 
16 But he will dwell with you, among you in the place he chooses in one of your cities, wherever he wishes. You will not vex him. 
17 There will be no whore among the daughters of Israel, and there will be no keeper of the whore among the sons of Israel. 
18 You will not bring the wages of a whore or the price of a dog into the house of Yahweh your God for any vow. For these both are an abomination to Yahweh your God. 
19 You will not lend interest to your brother, interest of money or interest of food or interest of any thing that is lent with interest. 
20 You may lend interest to a stranger, but you will not lend interest to your brother so that Yahweh your God may bless you in everything you do in the land where you are going to possess it. 
21 When you make a vow to Yahweh your God, you will not delay to fulfill it. For Yahweh your God will certainly demand it from you, and you will bear a sin. 
22 If you refrain from making a vow, then you will not commit a sin. 
23 But you will observe and do what comes out of your lips, because you have made a voluntarily vow to Yahweh your God and has spoken it with your mouth. 
24 When you enter your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat grapes as it pleases you and be satisfied, but you will not put any in your vessel. 
25 When you enter your neighbor's field of grain, you may pluck the ears of corn with your hand but you will not move a sickle on your neighbor's grain.
