1 These are the words of the covenant which Yahweh commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant he had made with them in Horeb (which is Sinai). 
2 Moses called all Israel and said to them, You have seen everything that Yahweh did before your eyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land. 
3 The great trials that your eyes have seen, those great miracles and wonders. 
4 But to this day Yahweh has not given you a heart to understand, nor eyes to see, nor ears to hear. 
5 I have led you for forty years into the wilderness. Your clothes are not worn on you, and your shoe is not worn on your foot. 
6 You have not eaten bread, and you have drunk neither wine nor strong liquor, so that you may know that I am Yahweh your God. 
7 And when you came to this place, Sihon king of Heshbon and Og king of Bashan came out to fight against us, and we defeated them. 
8 And we took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to one half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
9 Therefore you will observe the words of this covenant and put them into practice, so that you may succeed in all that you do. 
10 Today you all stand before Yahweh your God: your tribal heads, and your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel. 
11 And your children, and your wives, and the stranger who is in the midst of your camp, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water. 
12 You have come to enter the covenant of Yahweh your God, and into his oath that Yahweh your God is taking with you today. 
13 So that he may establish you today to be a people for his inheritance, and that he may be a God for you, as he swore to your fathers Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. 
14 It is not with you alone that I make this covenant and this oath. 
15 But it is with him who stands here with us today before Yahweh our God, as well as with him who is not here with us today. 
16 For you know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we passed through the midst of the nations through which you passed. 
17 And you saw their abominations and their idols which were among them, and which were made of wood, and of stone, and of silver, and of gold. 
18 Therefore there will be neither man nor woman among you, and neither family nor tribe, whose heart turns away today from Yahweh our God to go and serve the gods of these nations. Lest there be among you a root that produces poison or wormwood. 
19 Let no one boast in his heart after hearing the words of this curse by saying: I will have peace although I will walk in the stubbornness of my own heart by adding drunkenness to thirst. 
20 For Yahweh will not forgive him, but then the anger of Yahweh and his jealousy will be kindled against this man, and each curse that is written in this book will rest on him, and Yahweh will blot out his name from under heaven. 
21 And Yahweh will separate him in his calamity from all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in the book of this law. 
22 And the generations to come, your children who will rise after you and the stranger who will come from a distant land, will speak when seeing the plagues and diseases with which Yahweh will smite this land. 
23 For all this land will burn with sulfur and salt. And it will neither be sown nor brought forth, nor will any grass grow there. It will be like in the destruction of Sodom, and of Gomorah, and of Admah, and of Zeboiim, which Yahweh overthrew in his anger and in his fury. 
24 Then all nations will say: Why has Yahweh done this to this land, and what is the meaning of this great anger. 
25 And they will answer, Because they have forsaken the covenant of Yahweh the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. 
26 This is because they went to serve and worship other gods, gods that they did not know and that had done nothing for them previously. 
27 Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against that land, and he brought on it each curse written in this book. 
28 And Yahweh uprooted them from their land with anger, and with fury, and with great indignation. And he cast them into another land, as it appears today. 
29 The secret things belong to Yahweh our God, but the revealed things belong to us and to our children forever, so that we may do all the words of this law.
