1 Listen, O Israel. This day you will pass over the Jordan, to go into the promise land to be master of nations greater and more powerful than you, and of cities great and walled up to heaven. 
2 And of a people great and tall, the children of Anakim whom you know and about whom you have heard the saying: Who can stand against the children of Anak. 
3 Understand therefore today that it is Yahweh your God who will go before you like a consuming fire. And he will destroy them, and he will make them fall before you. So you will drive them out and destroy them quickly, as Yahweh has said to you. 
4 When Yahweh your God drives them out before you, do not say in your heart: Yahweh has brought me into this land and given it to me because of my righteousness. For it is because of the wickedness of these nations that Yahweh has driven them out before you. 
5 You will not enter and inherit their land because of your righteousness or because of the uprightness of your heart. But it is because of the wickedness of these nations that Yahweh your God will cast them out before you, and so that he may fulfill the word that Yahweh your God swore to your fathers Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. 
6 Know therefore that it is not because of your righteousness that Yahweh your God will give you this good land to possess it. For you are a stiff necked people. 
7 Remember and do not forget, how you provoked Yahweh your God to anger in the wilderness. Since the day when you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebels against Yahweh. 
8 And at Horeb [which is Sinai] you provoked the wrath of Yahweh, and Yahweh was angry with you and thought to destroy you. 
9 After I had gone up into the mountain [for the first time] to receive the tablets of stone. The tablets, I say, of the covenant which Yahweh made with you. For I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights, without eating bread and without drinking water. 
10 And Yahweh gave me two tablets of stone written with the finger of God. And on them was all the words that Yahweh had spoken to you from the mountain, out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. 
11 It was after forty days and forty nights that Yahweh gave me the two tablets of stone. The tablets, I say, of the covenant. 
12 And Yahweh said to me, Get up and come down quickly from here. For your people whom you have brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have quickly moved away from the path that I had commanded them. They have made for themselves a molten image. 
13 Furthermore Yahweh spoke to me by saying: I have seen this people and behold, it is a stiff necked people. 
14 Let me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under the heaven. And I will make you a stronger nation and more numerous than they. 
15 So I returned and came down from the mountain which was burning with fire, and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. 
16 And I looked and behold, you had sinned against Yahweh your God. For you had made for yourself a molten calf, and quickly turned aside out of the way that Yahweh had commanded you. 
17 Therefore I held the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes. 
18 And I fell down before Yahweh, forty days and forty nights as before. I did neither eat bread nor drink water, because of all your sins which you had committed when doing evil in the sight of Yahweh, and by which you provoked him to anger. 
19 For I was afraid of the wrath and the disgust with which Yahweh was engaged against you to destroy you. And Yahweh heard me at that time also. 
20 And Yahweh was very angry with Aaron to destroy him. And at that time I prayed also for Aaron. 
21 And I took your sin, I mean the calf that you had made, and burned it with fire. And I ground it small and reduced it to dust. And I cast this dust into the river that descended out of the mountain. 
22 Also in Taberah, and in Massah, and in Kibroth-hattaavah, you provoked Yahweh to anger. 
23 And when Yahweh sent you from Kadesh-barnea by saying, 'Go up and take possession of the land that I have given you'. Then you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God, you did not trust him or obey his voice. 
24 You have been rebels against Yahweh since the day that I knew you. 
25 Then I fell down before Yahweh forty days and forty nights, as I fell down before, because Yahweh had said that he would destroy you. 
26 And I prayed to Yahweh and said: O Lord Yahweh, do not destroy your people and your inheritance, whom you have redeemed by your greatness and brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. 
27 Remember your servants Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. Look not only at the stubbornness of this people, nor only at their wickedness, nor only at their sin. 
28 Lest the land from which you brought them say, It is because Yahweh was not able to bring them into the land that he promised them, or because he hated them from the beginning. This is why he took them away to kill them in the wilderness. 
29 Until now they are your people and your inheritance, whom you brought out of Egypt by your great power and by your outstretched arm.
