1 Then we turned and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the red sea, as Yahweh spoke to me. And we followed the contours of mount Seir for a long time. 
2 And Yahweh spoke to me in the following words. 
3 You have followed the contours of this mountain enough. Turn to the north. 
4 And give this order to the people, You will go through the border of your brothers, the children of Esau who dwell in Seir. They will be afraid of you therefore be very careful. 
5 You will not provoke them because I will not give you of their land, not even the wherewithal to put the sole of your feet. For I have given the mountain of Seir to Esau for a possession. 
6 You will buy from them with money the food that you will eat, and you will also buy from them with money the water that you will drink. 
7 For Yahweh your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He has known your walk through this great wilderness. And Yahweh your God has been with you these forty years, and you have lacked nothing. 
8 And when we were departed from our brothers the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, we went through the way of the plain from Elath and from Ezion-geber. And we turned and went by the way of the wilderness of Moab. 
9 Then Yahweh said to me, You will not vex Moab or fight against him. For I will not give you anything to possess in their land, since I have given Ar to the children of Lot for possession. 
10 The Emims dwelt there previously and they were a great people, and numerous, and tall like the Anakims. 
11 They were also said to be giants like the Anakims, but the Moabites called them Emims. 
12 Seir was formerly inhabited by the Horites, but the children of Esau drove them out and destroyed them before themselves, and dwelt in their place as Israel will do in the land of his possession which Yahweh has given them. 
13 Now get up, said I, and cross the river Zered. And we went over the river Zered. 
14 The time of our march from Kadesh-barnea until we came beyond the river Zered was thirty eight years, until the whole generation of men of war was consumed from the midst of the camp, as Yahweh had sworn to them. 
15 For the hand of Yahweh was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp until they were consumed. 
16 When all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people. 
17 Then Yahweh spoke to me in the following words. 
18 Today you will go through Ar the border of Moab. 
19 And you will approach the children of Ammon. Do not vex them or fight against them. For I will not give you anything to possess in the land of the children of Ammon, since I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession. 
20 This country was also considered a land of giants. For giants dwelt there formerly, and the Ammonites called them Zamzummim. 
21 They were a great people, and numerous, and tall like the Anakims. But Yahweh destroyed them before the Ammonites who replaced them in their inheritance and dwelt in their place. 
22 He did the same to the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites before them, and they replaced them and dwelt in their place until this day. 
23 And the Avvims who dwelt in villages as far as Gaza were replaced by the Caphtorim who came out of Caphtor, and who destroyed them and dwelt in their place. 
24 Get up therefore, said Yahweh, and journey and pass the river Arnon. Behold I have given into your hands Sihon the Amorite king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin the conquest, make war on him. 
25 Today I will begin to spread the fear of you and the dread of you on all peoples under the whole heaven, who will hear your fame, and who will quake and be filled with anguish because of you. 
26 Then I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon, with the following words of peace. 
27 Let me cross your land. I will follow the highway without deviating either to the right or to the left. 
28 You will sell me for money the food that I will eat, and you will give me for money the water that I will drink. I will only go through your land with my feet that is to say without causing harm. 
29 This is what the children of Esau who dwell in Seir and the Moabites who dwell in Ar have done to me. Grant it to me too, until I go beyond the Jordan into the land that Yahweh our God gives us. 
30 But Sihon the king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him. For Yahweh your God had hardened his spirit and made his heart stubborn, in order to deliver him into your hands as it appears today. 
31 And Yahweh said to me, Behold I have begun to give Sihon and his land before you. Begin to possess and inherit his land. 
32 Then Sihon went out to meet us, he and all his people to fight against us at Jahaz. 
33 But Yahweh our God delivered him to us. And we smote him, and his sons, and all his people. 
34 And we took all his cities at that time, and destroyed every city with men, and women, and children. We did not leave anything. 
35 We only took for ourselves the cattle, with the spoil of the cities which we had taken. 
36 From Aroer which is by the bank of the river of Arnon, and from the city that is in the valley as far as Gilead, there was no city too strong for us. For Yahweh our God delivered everything to us. 
37 But you did not approach the land of the children of Ammon, and all the sides of the river Jabbok, and the cities in the mountains, and all the places that Yahweh our God had forbidden us.
