1 Then we turned and went up by the way of Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people to fight us at Edrei. 
2 And Yahweh said to me, Do not fear him for I will deliver him into your hands, with all his people and his land. And you will do to him as you did to Sihon, the king of the Amorites who dwelt in Heshbon. 
3 And so Yahweh our God also delivered Og the king of Bashan and all his people into our hands. And we smote him until there were no survivors left. 
4 And we took all his cities at that time, and there was not one that did not fall into our power. Sixty cities and all the country of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
5 All these cities were fortified with high walls, and gates and bars. There were also very large numbers of unwalled towns. 
6 And we overthrew them as we did to Sihon the king of Heshbon. And we destroyed every city with men and women and children. 
7 But we plundered for ourselves the cattle and spoils of the cities. 
8 Thus we took at that time, out of the hands of two kings of the Amorites, the land on this side of the Jordan from the river of Arnon to the mountain Hermon. 
9 The Sidonians call Hermon by the name Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir. 
10 We took all the cities of the plain and all Gilead and all Bashan as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
11 For only Og the king of Bashan remained of the race of the giants. His bed was of iron: is it not in Rabbah among the children of Ammon. Its length is nine cubits and its width is four cubits, after the cubit of a man. 
12 And I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites this land which we possessed at that time, from Aroer which is by the river of Arnon, and half of the mountain of Gilead with its cities. 
13 And I gave to one half of the tribe of Manasseh the remainder of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og. All the land of Argob with all Bashan, which is called the land of giants. 
14 And Jair the son [from the families] of Manasseh took all the land of Argob and to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and he called them after his own name. And it is still called Havvoth Jair today. 
15 And I gave a part of Gilead to [the families of] Machir. 
16 And to the Reubenites and the Gadites I gave the rest of Gilead as far as the river of Arnon, half of the river and its borders, and as far as the river of Jabbok which is the border of the children of Ammon. 
17 And I also gave them the plain and the Jordan, and the borders from Chinnereth to the sea of the plain which is the salt sea under the springs of Pisgah towards the east. 
18 And I commanded you at that time by saying, Yahweh your God has given you this land to possess it. But you will go armed beyond the Jordan before your brothers the children of Israel, all the men of war among you. 
19 Only your wives, and your children, and your cattle because I know that you have many cattle, they will remain in your cities that I have given you. 
20 Until Yahweh gives rest to your brothers as well as to you, and that they also inherit the land which Yahweh your God has given them beyond the Jordan. And then you will each return to his possession which I have given you. 
21 At that time I gave orders to Joshua and said, Your eyes have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to these two kings. It is the same that Yahweh will do to all the kingdoms against which you go. 
22 Do not fear them, for Yahweh your God will fight for you himself. 
23 And I besought Yahweh at that time in the following words. 
24 O Lord Yahweh, you have begun to show your greatness and your mighty hand to your servant. For what other god in heaven or on earth can imitate your works and your mighty deeds. 
25 I pray you, let me go over and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, and this goodly mountain, and Lebanon. 
26 But Yahweh was angry with me because of you, and he did not want to listen to me. And Yahweh said to me: That is enough, do not talk to me about this matter anymore. 
27 Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes to the west, and to the north, and to the south, and to the east, and behold it with your eyes. For you will not go beyond this Jordan. 
28 And give orders to Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him. For he will go before this people and he will divide the inheritance to them, the land that you will see. 
29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor.
