1 Now therefore listen, O Israel, to the ordinances and laws which I teach you. Put them into practice so that you may live, and enter and possess the land which Yahweh the God of your fathers gives you. 
2 You will add nothing to the word that I command you, and you will not diminish anything from it. But you will keep the commandments of Yahweh your God as I command you. 
3 Your eyes have seen what Yahweh did because of Baal peor. Yahweh your God has destroyed from among you all those who have followed Baal peor. 
4 And you who were faithful to Yahweh your God are all alive today. 
5 Behold I have taught you ordinances and laws as Yahweh my God commanded me, so that you may put them into practice in the land where you go to possess it. 
6 Keep them therefore and do them. For this will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the people, who will hear of all these ordinances and will say: This great nation is an absolutely wise and intelligent people. 
7 For what other nation is so great that their gods draw near to them, as Yahweh our God draws near to us whenever we call on him. 
8 And what other nation is so great that their ordinances and laws are as fair as all this law which I set before you today. 
9 But beware and keep your soul diligently all the days of your life, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart. For you will teach them to your sons, and to the sons of your sons. 
10 Do not forget the day when you came before Yahweh your God in Horeb [which is Sinai], when Yahweh said to me: Gather me the people and I will make them hear my words so that they may learn to fear me as long as they live on earth, and so that they may teach them to their children. 
11 Then you came closer and stood at the foot of the mountain. And the mountain burned with fire, and the flames rose to the middle of the sky. And there was darkness, and clouds, and mist. 
12 And Yahweh spoke to you from the midst of the fire. And you heard the voice of the words, but you saw no form. You only heard a voice. 
13 And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to carry out. These are the ten commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone. 
14 And at that time Yahweh commanded me to teach you ordinances and laws, so that you put them into practice in land where you go to possess it. 
15 Therefore beware of yourself, for you saw no form on the day that Yahweh spoke to you out of the midst of the fire at Horeb [which is Sinai]. 
16 Lest you corrupt yourselves by creating a graven image or likeness of any form, or the likeness of a man or woman, to worship it.
17 Or the likeness of whatever beast that is on the earth, or the likeness of whatever winged bird that flies in the sky, to worship it. 
18 Or the likeness of whatever thing that creeps on the earth, or the likeness of whatever fish that is in the water under the earth, to worship it. 
19 Lest you lift up your eyes to the sky and seeing the sun and the moon and the stars with all the army of the sky, you are tempted to worship them and serve them. For these are not gods but the things that Yahweh your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven. 
20 But Yahweh took you and brought you out of the iron furnace of Egypt to make you his people and his inheritance as it appears today. 
21 And Yahweh was angry with me because of you. And he swore that I will not go beyond the Jordan, and that I will not enter the good land which Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance. 
22 For I must die in this land, and I will not go beyond the Jordan. But you will go there, and you will possess this good land. 
23 Beware of yourself lest you forget the covenant of Yahweh your God which he made with you, and lest you make any graven image or likeness of any thing to worship it as Yahweh your God has forbidden you. 
24 For Yahweh your God is a devouring fire, and a jealous God. 
25 When you beget children and they beget children, and you have been in the land for a long time, if you corrupt yourself and make any graven image or likeness of any thing to worship it, or if you do evil in the sight of Yahweh your God to provoke his anger. 
26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that you will quickly perish in this land beyond the Jordan where you go to possess it. You will not prolong your days there, for you will utterly be destroyed. 
27 And Yahweh will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few among the nations where Yahweh will lead you. 
28 And there you will serve false gods, woods and stones that are shaped by human hands and that cannot see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. 
29 And from there you will seek Yahweh your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and soul. 
30 When you are in tribulation and all these things happen to you, then in the last days you will return to Yahweh your God and listen to his voice. 
31 For Yahweh your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you, or destroy you, or forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. 
32 Inquire of the ancient times that preceded you since the day that God created man on earth, and from one end of the heaven to the other. Was there ever such a great event, and has anyone ever heard of anything similar. 
33 Was there ever a people who heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire as you heard it, and who remained alive. 
34 Or was there ever a god who tried to go and take to himself a nation from the midst of another nation by trials, and by signs, and by wonders, and by battles, and with a mighty hand, and an outstretched arm, and great terrors, as Yahweh your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes. 
35 You have been made a witness of these things, so that you may know that Yahweh is God and that there is no other besides him. 
36 He made you hear his voice out of heaven to instruct you, and on earth he showed you his great fire. And you heard his words from the midst of the fire. 
37 And because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them. And he brought you out of Egypt in his sight and by his great power. 
38 He has cast out before you nations of greater numbers and strength, to bring you into their land and give it to you for an inheritance as it appears today. 
39 Therefore understand this day and keep in your heart that Yahweh is God in heaven above and on earth below, and there is no one else. 
40 Therefore you will keep his ordinances and his commandments which I command you today, so that you may be happy, you and your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which Yahweh your God gives you. 
41 Then Moses set apart three cities on the this side of the Jordan toward the sunrising. 
42 So that the murderer may escape there, the one who unintentionally killed his neighbor without being his enemy at that time. I say, he may save his life by fleeing to one of these cities. 
43 They were: Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country of the Reubenites. And Ramoth in Gilead among the Gadites. And Golan in Bashan among the Manassites. 
44 So this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel. 
45 These are the testimonies, the ordinances and the laws which Moses declared to the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt. 
46 It was on the this side of the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites. He dwelt in Heshbon and was smote by Moses and the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt. 
47 And they possessed his land, and the land of Og the king of Bashan. These two kings of the Amorites were on this side of the Jordan toward the sunrising. 
48 Their territory extended from Aroer which is on the bank of the river Arnon, to Mount Sion which is Hermon. 
49 And all the plain on this side of the Jordan toward the east, to the sea of the plain at the foot of the springs of Pisgah.
