1 If there arises among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams, who announces to you a sign or a wonder. 
2 And there is a fulfillment of the sign or the wonder of which he spoke while saying to you, Let us go after other gods which you do not know and let us serve them. 
3 You will not listen to the words of this prophet or this dreamer of dreams. For it is Yahweh your God who tests you to know if you love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
4 But you will walk after Yahweh your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and serve him, and cling to him. 
5 And this prophet or this dreamer of dreams will be put to death. For he spoke of rebellion against Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and delivered you from the house of bondage. And because he thrusts you out of the way in which Yahweh your God has commanded you to walk. Thus you will remove evil from your midst. 
6 If your brother, the son of thy mother, or your own son, or your daughter, or the wife who rests on your chest, or your friend whom you love as yourself, secretly entices you and says: Let us go and serve other gods which you have not known, you, I say, nor your fathers. 
7 Among the gods of the peoples around you, whether they are near you or far from you, from one end of the earth to the other. 
8 Then you will not agree with him, and you will not listen to him, and your eye will not pity him, and you will not spare him, and you will not keep this matter secret.
9 But you will even kill him. Your hand will be the first on him to kill him, and then the hand of all the people. 
10 And you will stone him with stones so that he dies. For he sought to separate you from Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
11 And so all Israel will hear and fear, and will no more commit such wickedness among you. 
12 If you hear the following words concerning one of the cities that Yahweh your God has given you to dwell in. 
13 Wicked men have gone out from among you, and have deceived the inhabitants of their city by saying, Let us go and serve other gods which you have not known. 
14 Then you will diligently investigate and examine and question. And if it is true, and it is established that this abomination has been committed among you. 
15 Then you will strike the inhabitants of this city with the edge of the sword. You will completely destroy the city and everything that is in it, and the cattle with the edge of the sword. 
16 And you will gather all the spoils there in the middle of a street. And you will burn the city and all its spoil with fire, for the sake of Yahweh your God. And it will be a heap of ruins forever, and it will never be rebuilt. 
17 And none of the accursed things will cling to your hand, so that Yahweh may turn away from the fierceness of his anger, and have mercy on you, and have compassion on you, and multiply you, as he swore to your fathers. 
18 You will obey the voice of Yahweh your God. You will keep all his commandments that I command you today, in order to do what is right in the eyes of Yahweh your God.
