1 Therefore you will love Yahweh your God, and you will always observe what he commands. That is, his ordinances, and his laws, and his commandments. 
2 Think carefully about this day. For I do not speak to your children who have neither known nor seen the punishment of Yahweh your God, precisely his greatness, and his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm. 
3 And his signs, and his acts, which he performed in the midst of Egypt against Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and against all his land. 
4 Acknowledge what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and their chariots, when he caused the waters of the red sea to overflow while they were pursuing you. And Yahweh destroyed them forever. 
5 And what he did to you in the wilderness, until you have come to this place. 
6 And what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab the son of Reuben. When the earth opened its mouth and engulfed them with their households and their tents and all the goods that they had, in the midst of all Israel. 
7 For your eyes have seen all the great acts of Yahweh which he did. 
8 Therefore you will keep all the commandments that I command you today, so that you may have the strength to go and possess the land where you will go to possess it. 
9 And so that you may prolong your days in the land that Yahweh swore to your fathers to give to them and to their seed, a land where milk and honey flow. 
10 For the land that you are going to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from where you came, where you sowed your seed into the fields and watered it with your foot like a garden of herbs. 
11 But the land you are going to own is a land of mountains and valleys which drinks the waters of the rain of heaven.  
12 It is a land that Yahweh your God takes care of. The eyes of Yahweh your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. 
13 If you diligently obey my commandments which I command you today, to love Yahweh your God and serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. 
14 I will also give rain to your land when it is needed, the early and latter rain, and you will gather your wheat and your wine and your oil. 
15 And I will also send grass into your fields for your cattle, and you will eat and be satisfied. 
16 Beware that your heart be seduced and turn away, to serve other gods and bow down to them. 
17 For then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you. And he will close the heaven so that there will be no rain and your land will not yield its products, and you will quickly perish in the good land which Yahweh gives you. 
18 Put therefore in your heart and in your soul these words that I say to you. And bind them as a sign on your hands, that they may be as frontlets between your eyes. 
19 And you will teach them to your children, and you will tell them about it when you are in your house, and when you go on a journey, and when you lie down and when you get up. 
20 And you will write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. 
21 And then your days and the days of your children will be multiplied in the land that Yahweh swore to your fathers to give them, and will be as many as the days of the heavens above the earth. 
22 For if you keep diligently all these commandments which I command you to do, precisely to love Yahweh your God and to walk in all his ways and to cling to him. 
23 Then Yahweh will cast out all these nations before you, and you will be masters of nations greater and more powerful than you. 
24 Every place that the sole of your foot treads will be yours. Your border will extend from the wilderness and from Lebanon, and from the river, the river Euphrates, to the uttermost sea. 
25 No one will stand against you. For Yahweh your God will spread the fear and the dread of you throughout the land where you will walk, as he has said to you. 
26 Behold today I place before you a blessing and a curse. 
27 The blessing if you obey the commandments of Yahweh your God which I command you this day. 
28 And the curse if you do not obey the commandments of the Yahweh your God, and turn aside from the way which I command you today to go after other gods whom you do not know. 
29 Therefore when Yahweh your God bring you into the land where you go to possess it, then you will pronounce the blessing at the mount Gerizim and the curse at the mount Ebal. 
30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the plain opposite Gilgal, near the oaks of Moreh. 
31 For you will pass over the Jordan, and go in, and possess the land that Yahweh your God gives you. You will possess it, and you will dwell there. 
32 Be careful therefore to do all the commandments and the laws that I set before you today.
