1 If you see your neighbor's ox or sheep wandering away, you will not turn away from them but you will bring them back to your neighbor. 
2 And if your neighbor does not live near you, or you do not know him, then you will bring the animal into your house and it will stay with you until your neighbor asks for it. And then you will restore it to him. 
3 You will do the same with his donkey, and you will do the same with his clothes, and you will do the same with any thing of your neighbor which he has lost. If you have found them then you will not turn away from them. 
4 If you see your neighbor's donkey or his ox fallen on the road, you will not turn away from them but you will help them to get up again. 
5 A woman will not wear what pertains to a man, and a man will not put on a woman's clothing. For whoever does this thing is an abomination to Yahweh your God. 
6 If you encounter a bird’s nest in your way, in a tree or on the ground, with young or eggs, and the mother lying on the young or on the eggs, then you will not take the mother and the young. 
7 But you will let the mother go and you will take only the young, so that you may be happy and prolong your days. 
8 When you build a new house then you will make a balustrade around your roof, so as not to shed blood on your house by anticipating the case someone falls. 
9 You will not sow various kinds of seed in your vineyard, lest you enjoy neither the produce of what you sow nor the produce of the vineyard. 
10 You will not plow with an ox and a donkey yoked together. 
11 You will not wear a garment woven of different kinds of thread, such as wool and linen gathered together. 
12 You will put fringes on the four corners of the garment with which you cover yourself. 
13 If a man takes a woman and copulates with her, and then feels aversion towards her. 
14 And if he accuses her of shameful things and damages her reputation by saying: I took this woman and came to her, and I found no token of virginity in her. 
15 Then the father and mother of the young woman will take the tokens of her virginity and will show them before the elders of the city at the gate. 
16 And the father of the young woman will say to the elders: I gave my daughter to this man for a wife, and then he had an aversion towards her. 
17 And lo, he imputes shameful things to her by saying, I did not find your daughter a virgin. Behold these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And then they will expose the garment before the elders of the city. 
18 And the elders of the city will seize the man and punish him. 
19 And they will sentence him to a fine of one hundred shekels of silver which they will give to the young woman's father, because he has tarnished the reputation of a virgin of Israel. And she will be his wife, and he will not be able to put her away as long as he lives. 
20 But if the thing is true, and the young woman was not found to be a virgin. 
21 Then the young woman will be brought to the door of her father's house, and she will be stoned with stones to death by the inhabitants of her city. For she has committed infamy in Israel by prostituting herself in her father's house. Thus you will remove evil from your midst. 
22 If a man is found copulating with a married woman, then they will both die. The man who copulates with the woman, and the woman too. Thus you will remove evil from Israel. 
23 If a virgin is engaged and a man finds her in town and copulates with her. 
24 Then you will bring them both to the gate of the same town, and you will stone them with stones to death. The virgin because she did not cry out in the town, and the man because he has dishonored his neighbor's wife. Thus you will remove evil from your midst. 
25 But if a man finds a betrothed virgin in the fields and copulates with her by force, then the man who committed this action will be the only one to be put to death. 
26 And you will do nothing to this woman because she is not guilty of a crime worthy of death. For it is in this case as in the one where a man rises against his neighbor to kill him. 
27 For he found her in the field, and maybe the betrothed woman cried out without anyone being there to help her. 
28 If a man finds an unengaged virgin and does violence to her and copulates with her [and if they are discovered during the fact or if the thing is known and in any case God is the faithful witness]. 
29 Then the man who has copulated with her will give the father of this woman fifty shekels of silver, and she will be his wife. For he has humiliated her therefore he cannot send her away as long as he lives. 
30 No man will take his father's wife nor uncover his father's skirt.
