1 When Yahweh your God has destroyed the nations whose land Yahweh your God gives you, and you possess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses. 
2 Then you will separate three cities in the midst of your land that Yahweh your God gives you to possess it. 
3 You will establish highways and divide into three parts the borders of the land which Yahweh your God causes you to inherit. So any murderer may escape to these cities. 
4 This law will apply to the murderer who flees there to save his life, when he has involuntarily killed his neighbor without having been his enemy at that time. 
5 For example a man goes to cut wood in the forest with his neighbor. And while his hand strikes with an ax to cut down a tree, the ax slips and hits his neighbor who then dies. In this case the murderer will flee to one of these cities to save his life. 
6 Lest the avenger of blood who is appointed to this purpose burns with anger in his heart and pursues the murderer, and catches him because the way is long, and strikes him mortally although he is not worthy of death since he did not hate the victim at the time of the event. 
7 Therefore I give you this command: You will separate three cities. 
8 And when Yahweh your God enlarges your borders as he swore to your fathers, and gives you all the land that he promised to give to your fathers. 
9 And this will happen if you observe and do all these commandments which I command you today namely to love Yahweh your God and to always walk in his ways. Then you will add three more cities for you besides these three. 
10 So that innocent blood may not be shed in the midst of the land that Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance. For you will not have much opportunity to be guilty of murder by the actions of the avenger of blood, since an innocent murderer will have many possibilities of escape. 
11 But if a man flees to one of these cities after having ambushed his neighbor out of enmity against him, having attacked him and struck him so as to cause his death. 
12 Then the elders of his city will send to seize him, and will give him into the hands of the avenger of blood so that he may die. 
13 Your eye will not pity him, but you will wipe away innocent blood from Israel so that you may be happy. 
14 You will not push back the boundaries of your neighbor which was set by your ancestors in your inheritance. In this way you will inherit in the land that Yahweh your God gives you to possess it. 
15 One witness will not be enough against a man to establish any iniquity or any sin or whatever. But a fact can only be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. 
16 If a false witness stands up against any man to accuse him of a crime. 
17 Then the two men between whom there is a dispute will come before Yahweh, that is to say, before the priests and the judges who will be in those days.
18 And the judges will conduct a diligent investigation. And if it is established that the witness voluntary made false accusations against his brother. 
19 Then you will do to him what he intended to do to his brother. Thus you will eliminate evil from among you. 
20 And others will hear this and fear, and no one will commit such a criminal act among you again. 
21 Therefore your eye will not pity a culprit, but a life for a life, and an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, and a hand for a hand, and a foot for a foot.
