1 When there is controversy among men, then they will come into judgment, and the sentence will be given to them, and the righteous will be justified and the guilty will be condemned. 
2 If the offender deserves to be beaten, then the judge will cause him to lie on the ground and be beaten before the judge with a number of hits proportional to the gravity of his fault. 
3 He will not be beaten more than forty hits, lest if he continues to be beaten then your brother may be degraded in your eyes. 
4 You will not muzzle the ox when it treads out the grain. 
5 When brothers live together and one of them dies without a son, then the wife of the dead will not marry outside with a stranger. But her brother in law will go to her and take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a relative of a husband to her. 
6 And the firstborn [son] to whom she gives birth will succeed the dead brother, so that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. 
7 And if this man does not want to take his sister in law, then she will go to the gate of the elders and say: My kinsman refuses to raise up his brother's name in Israel, he does not want to perform the duty of a kinsman for me. 
8 Then the elders of his city will call him and talk to him. And if he persists and says, I do not want to take her. 
9 Then his brother’s wife will approach him in the presence of the elders, take his shoe from the foot and spit in his face. And she will answer and say, Thus will it be done to the man who does not build his brother’s house. 
10 And his house will be called in Israel the house of the shoeless. 
11 If men fight against each other, and if the wife of one approaches to deliver her husband from the hand of the one who strikes him, and if she extends her hand and grabs the latter by his private parts. 
12 Then you will cut off her hand. Your eye will not pity her. 
13 You will not have two kinds of weights in your bag, a large one and a small one. 
14 And You will not have in your house diverse measures, a great and a small. 
15 But you will have a perfect and just weight, and you will have an exact and just measure. So that your days may be long on the land that Yahweh your God gives you. 
16 For all those who do these things, and commit iniquity, are an abomination to Yahweh your God. 
17 Remember what Amalek did to you on the way, when you came out of Egypt. 
18 How he met you on the way and smote your back part without any fear of God, all those who were weak behind you when you were weary and exhausted. 
19 Therefore when Yahweh your God gives you rest from all your enemies around you in the land that Yahweh your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, then you will erase the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. Do not forget it.
