1 Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people and said, Keep all the commandments I command you this day. 
2 When you pass over the Jordan to enter the land that Yahweh your God gives you, then you will set up large stones and you will plaster them with plaster. 
3 And you will write on these stones all the words of this law when you pass over the Jordan to enter the land that Yahweh your God gives you. A land where milk and honey flow, as Yahweh the God of your fathers has promised you. 
4 Thus when you pass over the Jordan, then you will set up on mount Ebal these stones which I command you today, the stones of the law, and you will plaster them with plaster. 
5 And there you will build an altar to Yahweh your God, an altar of stones on which you will not raise any iron instrument. 
6 You will build the altar of Yahweh your God with unhewn stones. And you will offer burnt offerings on this altar to Yahweh your God. 
7 And you will offer peace offerings there, and you will eat and rejoice there before Yahweh your God. 
8 And you will write on the stones of the law all the words of this law, well and clearly. 
9 Moses and the priests of the Levites spoke to all of Israel and said: Keep quiet and listen, O Israel. Today you have become the people of Yahweh your God. 
10 Therefore you will listen to the voice of Yahweh your God, and you will do his commandments and his ordinances that I command you today. 
11 And Moses gave the following commandment to the people on the same day. 
12 When you pass over the Jordan, these ones will stand on mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin. 
13 And these others will stand on mount Ebal to pronounce the curse: Reuben, and Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, and Dan, and Naphtali. 
14 And the Levites will answer and speak aloud to all Israel the following things. 
15 Cursed is the man who makes a graven image or a molten image to worship it, which is an abomination to Yahweh. The one who makes the work of the hands of a craftsman and who places it in a secret place. And all the people will answer and say, So be it. 
16 Cursed is he who curses his father or his mother. And all the people will say, So be it. 
17 Cursed is he who moves the boundaries of his neighbor. And all the people will say, So be it. 
18 Cursed is he who causes the blind to go out of the way. And all the people will say, So be it. 
19 Cursed is he who violates the rights of the stranger, or of the fatherless, or of the widow. And all the people will say, So be it. 
20 Cursed is he who copulates with his father's wife. Because he has uncovered his father's skirt. And all the people will say, So be it. 
21 Cursed is he who copulates with any beast. And all the people will say, So be it. 
22 Cursed is he who copulates with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother. And all the people will say, So be it. 
23 Cursed is he who copulates with his mother in law. And all the people will say, So be it. 
24 Cursed is he who strikes his neighbor in secret. And all the people will say, So be it. 
25 Cursed is he who receives a gift to shed the blood of the innocent. And all the people will say, So be it. 
26 Cursed is he who does not accept the words of this law and does not put them into practice. And all the people will say, So be it.
