1 These are the ordinances and the laws that you will keep and do in the land that Yahweh the God of your fathers gives you to possess it, as long as you live on the earth. 
2 All the places where the nations you are going to drive out serve their gods, you will destroy. Whether on the high mountains, or on the hills, or under every green tree. 
3 And you will overthrow their altars, and break their pillars, and burn their idols with fire. And you will tear down the graven images of their gods, and you will make their names disappear from these places. 
4 And you will not do the same to Yahweh your God. 
5 But you will seek the place that Yahweh your God will choose from among all your tribes to put his name there and to dwell there. And there you will come. 
6 And you will bring there your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and your firstfruits, and your offerings for a vow, and your voluntary offerings, and the firstborns of your herd and of your flock. 
7 And there you will eat before Yahweh your God, and you will rejoice in all the abundance that you have brought, both you and your households, because Yahweh your God has blessed you. 
8 You will not act like we are doing here now. For each one is doing what seems good in his own eyes. 
9 For you are not yet come to the place of rest, in the inheritance that Yahweh your God gives you. 
10 But when you go over the Jordan and dwell in the land that Yahweh your God has given you to inherit, and when he gives you rest from all your enemies all around so that you may dwell in safety. 
11 Then there will be a place that Yahweh your God will choose to set his name there. And there you will bring all that I have commanded you: your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and your firstfruits, and all your special vows that you make to Yahweh. 
12 And you will rejoice before Yahweh your God, you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your manservants, and your maidservants, and the Levite who is within your gates for he has neither portion nor inheritance with you. 
13 Be careful not to offer your burnt offerings in all the places which you see. 
14 But you will offer your burnt offerings in the place that the Yahweh will choose in one of your tribes, and there you will do all that I have commanded you. 
15 However you may kill cattle and eat meat in all your gates when you have desire, according to the blessings that Yahweh your God will give you. Anyone who is unclean and anyone who is clean can eat of it, as one eats the roebuck or the hart. 
16 Only you will not eat the blood, but you will pour it on the ground like water. 
17 You will not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, nor of your wine, nor of your oil, nor the firstborn of your herd or your flock, nor any of your offerings for your vows, nor your freewill offerings, nor your firstfruits. 
18 But you will eat them before Yahweh your God in the place that Yahweh your God will has chosen, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your servant, and your maidservant, and the Levite who is within your gates. And you will rejoice before Yahweh your God with all the abundance of your hand. 
19 Beware of abandoning the Levite while you live in the land. 
20 When Yahweh your God enlarges your borders as he promised you, and the desire to eat meat makes you say in your heart, 'I would like to eat meat'. Then you can eat meat according to your desire. 
21 If the place that Yahweh your God has chosen to put his name is far from you, then you can kill of your bullocks and of your sheep which Yahweh has given you, as I have commanded you, and eat it within your gates as you desire. 
22 You will eat it as one eats the roebuck or the hart. Both the unclean and the clean will eat it. 
23 Only be careful not to eat the blood. For the blood is the life, and you will not eat the life with the flesh. 
24 Therefore you will not eat it, but pour it on the ground like water. 
25 You will not eat it, so that you and your children after you can be happy by doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh. 
26 But the things that you want to consecrate and the offerings that you make for your vows, you will bring them to the place that Yahweh has chosen. 
27 You will offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of Yahweh your God. And the blood of your peace offerings will be poured out on the altar of Yahweh your God, and you will eat the flesh. 
28 Take heed and listen to all these words that I command you so that you may be happy, and your children after you forever, by doing what is good and right in the sight of Yahweh your God. 
29 When Yahweh your God has destroyed the nations before you, those whom you will cast out, because you will make yourselves master of them and dwell in their land. 
30 Beware of yourselves to be trapped by imitating them, after they have been destroyed before you. Beware of asking about their gods and saying, How did these nations serve their gods. I too want to do the same. 
31 You will not do this to Yahweh your God. For they have served their gods by doing all the abominations that are hateful to Yahweh, and they have even burned their sons and daughters in the fire in honor of their gods. 
32 But you will observe and do everything I command you. You will add nothing to it and you will take nothing away from it.
