1 Every seven years, you will make a freedom. 
2 And this is the manner of the freedom. Any creditor who has made a loan to his neighbor will abandon his right. He will no longer ask it of his neighbor or his brother, because the year of Yahweh's freedom is proclaimed. 
3 You can demand it from a stranger but what belongs to you and is with your brother, your hand will abandon it. 
4 However you will not forget a needy person who is near you. For Yahweh will bless you in the land that Yahweh your God will give you for an inheritance to possess it. 
5 It will be so when you obey the voice of Yahweh your God to observe and do all these commandments that I command you today. 
6 For Yahweh your God will bless you as he promised you, and you will lend to many nations but you will not borrow. And you will rule over many nations and they will not rule over you. 
7 If any of your brothers is poor among you in any of your gates in the land that Yahweh your God gives you, then you will not harden your heart and you will not close your hand before your needy brother. 
8 But you will open your hand to him, and you will lend him enough for his needs. 
9 Beware of having a wicked thought and to say in your heart that the seventh year which is the year of freedom is approaching. For if it hurts you to help your brother who is in need because he is not going to pay off his debt when the year of freedom comes, and if you do not do for him what you have the possibility of doing, then he will cry out to Yahweh against you and you will bear a sin. 
10 Therefore you will give to him, and let it not grieve you when you give to him. For as a result of this thing, Yahweh your God will bless you in all your labors and in all that you undertake. 
11 There will always be those in need in the land therefore I command you: You will open your hand to your brother, and to the poor, and to the needy in your land. 
12 If one of your brothers sells himself to you, whether he is a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, then he will serve you six years and in the seventh year you will let him free to leave you. 
13 And when you send him out free from you, you will not let him leave empty-handed. 
14 But you will give him gifts from your flock, and from your grain, and from your wine. You will give him from what Yahweh your God has blessed you. 
15 You will remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and that Yahweh your God delivered you. Therefore I give you this commandment today. 
16 And if your servant says, I will not go away from you. For he loves you and your house, and is happy with you. 
17 Then you will take an awl, and you will pierce his ear against the door, and he will be your slave forever. You will do the same for your maidservant. 
18 Let it not grieve you when you have to let him go away free from you simply because he served you six years for the double of the hire of a hireling. For Yahweh your God will bless you in all that you do. 
19 You will dedicate to Yahweh your God every firstborn male that comes from your herd and from your flock. You will do no work with the firstborn of your bullock, and you will not shear the firstborn of your sheep. 
20 You will eat it before Yahweh your God every year in the place that he will has chosen, both you and your household. 
21 But if it has any blemish, if it is lame or blind or if it has any other deformity, then you will not offer it for a sacrifice to Yahweh your God. 
22 But you will eat it within your gates. He who is unclean and he who is clean will both eat it like the roebuck and like the hart. 
23 Only you will not eat the blood but you will pour it on the ground like water.
