1 At that time Yahweh said to me, Hew two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to me into the mountain. And make an ark of wood. 
2 And I will write on these tablets the words that were on the first tablets which you broke, and you will put them in the ark. 
3 Then I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tablets of stone like the first. And I went up into the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. 
4 And he wrote on the tablets according to the first writing, the ten commandments which Yahweh spoke to you from the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. And Yahweh gave them to me. 
5 And I departed and came down from the mountain. And I put the tablets in the ark that I had made, and they stayed there as Yahweh commanded me. 
6 And the children of Israel journeyed from Beeroth of the children of Jaakan and went to Moserah. And Aaron died there and was buried. And Eleazar his son became a priest in his stead. 
7 And from there they journeyed to Gudgodah. And from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of running waters. 
8 At that time Yahweh separated the tribe of Levi, to carry the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and to stand before Yahweh and serve him, and to bless the people in his name. This is what they have done so far. 
9 Therefore Levi has neither part nor inheritance with his brothers. For Yahweh is his inheritance, as Yahweh your God promised him. 
10 And I stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights. And Yahweh heard me at that time also, and Yahweh would not destroy you. 
11 And Yahweh said to me, Get up and go, and lead the people in the journey. So that they may go and take possession of the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. 
12 And now, Israel, what does Yahweh your God require of you except to fear Yahweh your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to love and serve Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
13 And to keep the commandments of Yahweh and his ordinances which I command you today, so that you may be happy. 
14 Behold to Yahweh your God belong the heaven and the heaven of heavens, and the earth and all that is over it. 
15 And Yahweh took pleasure in your fathers and loved them. Therefore he chose their seed after them, and set you above all peoples, as he appears today. 
16 Circumcise therefore the foreskins of your hearts, and harden no more your necks. 
17 For Yahweh your God is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords. A great God, mighty and terrible, who shows no respect for the face of a person and who takes no reward when exercising judgment. 
18 The one who performs justice for the fatherless and the widow, and who loves the stranger and gives him food and clothing. 
19 Therefore you will love the stranger. For you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
20 You will fear Yahweh your God. You will serve him, and you will cling to him, and you will swear by his name. 
21 He is your glory and he is your God. He who has done for you these great and terrible things that your eyes have seen. 
22 Your fathers went into Egypt with seventy people, and now Yahweh your God has made you a multitude like the stars of heaven.
