1 These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel on this side of the Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain opposite the red sea, between Paran and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Di-Zahab. 
2 There are eleven days of travel from Horeb [which is Sinai] to Kadesh-barnea, by the way of the mountain of Seir. 
3 In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that Yahweh had commanded him to say to them. 
4 This was after he had defeated Sihon the king of the Amorites who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan who dwelt at Ashtaroth in Edrei. 
5 On that side of the Jordan in the land of Moab, Moses began to declare this law in the following words. 
6 Yahweh our God spoke to us in Horeb [which is Sinai] by saying, You have lived long enough in this mountain. 
7 Turn and depart, and go to the mountain of the Amorites, and to all the surrounding areas in the plain and on the mountain and in the valley. Both to the south and to the sea side, in the land of the Canaanites and in Lebanon. Even to the great river, the river Euphrates. 
8 Behold I have set the land before you. Go and possess the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, to give to them and to their seed after them. 
9 And I spoke to you at that time by saying, I am not able to bear you on myself alone. 
10 Yahweh your God has multiplied you and behold, you are today as numerous as the stars in the sky. 
11 May Yahweh the God of your fathers increases you a thousand times as much, and bless you as he has promised you. 
12 How can I myself alone bear your encumbrance, and your burden, and your strife. 
13 Bring from your tribes, men who are wise and intelligent and known, and I will make them rulers over you. 
14 Then you answered me and said, What you have commanded us to do is good. 
15 Then I took the chiefs of your tribes who were wise and known, and made them rulers over you. I made them captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens, having authority in your tribes. 
16 And I commanded these judges at that time by saying, Listen the controversies between your brothers, and judge righteously between every man and his brother, and the stranger who is with him. 
17 You will have no respect for the face of a person when exercising judgment, but you will listen to the small as well as to the great. You will not be afraid by the face of man because the judgment is that of God. And when a cause is too difficult for you, bring it before me and I will hear it. 
18 And I commanded you at the same time all that you had to do. 
19 Then we departed from Horeb [which is Sinai] and went through all this great and terrible wilderness which you have seen. We took the way of the mountain of the Amorites as Yahweh our God commanded us, and we came to Kadesh-Barnea. 
20 And I said to you: You have come to the mountain of the Amorites which Yahweh our God gives us. 
21 Behold Yahweh your God has set the land before you. Go up and possess it as Yahweh the God of your fathers has spoken to you. Do not be afraid and do not be discomforted. 
22 Then you all came to me and said: We will send men ahead of us to explore the land, and to tell us the way by which we will go up there and the cities where we will come. 
23 And this initiative pleased me. And I took twelve men from among you, one man per tribe. 
24 And they departed and went up to the mountain, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and spy out the land. 
25 And they took of the fruits of the land in their hands, and brought it to us. And they reported to us by saying, It is a good land which Yahweh our God gives us. 
26 But you did not want to go up there, and you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God. 
27 And you murmured in your tents and said, It is because Yahweh hates us that he brought us out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites and to destroy us. 
28 Where would we go up. Our brothers have discouraged our heart when they said, The people are greater and taller than we, and the cities are large and walled up to heaven. Moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakims there. 
29 But I say to you: Dread not, neither be afraid of them. 
30 Yahweh your God will go before you, he will fight for you according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes. 
31 And in the wilderness where you have seen how Yahweh your God carried you as a man carries his son, throughout the journey that you made until you have come at this place. 
32 In spite of all this, you did not trust in Yahweh your God. 
33 The one who went ahead of you to seek a place to set your tents, in a fire by night to show you the way to go, and in a cloud by day. 
34 Then Yahweh heard the voice of your words, and he was angry, and he swore in the following words. 
35 None of this wicked generation will see the good land that I swore to give to your fathers. 
36 Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh. He will see it, and I will give to him and to his children the land on which he walked, because he fully followed the way of Yahweh. 
37 And Yahweh was also angry with me because of you, and he said: You also will not enter there. 
38 But your servant Joshua son of Nun will enter there. Strengthen him, for it is he who will cause Israel to inherit the land. 
39 And your children about whom you have said that they will become a prey, your sons who at this time have no knowledge of good or evil, they will enter the land and I will give it to them, and they will own it. 
40 But as for you, turn back and go into the wilderness by the way of the red sea. 
41 Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against Yahweh. We will go up and fight, according to all that Yahweh our God has commanded us. And you each girded your weapons, and you made the rash plan to go up to the mountain. 
42 But Yahweh said to me: Say to them, Do not go up neither fight, lest you fall before your enemies. For I am not among you. 
43 And I told you about it, but you would not listen. And you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh and you boldly went up to the mountain. 
44 Then the Amorites who dwell on this mountain came out against you and pursued you as bees do. And they defeated you in Seir and as far as Hormah. 
45 And when you returned, you wept before Yahweh. But Yahweh did not listen to your voice or give ear to you. 
46 And you abode in Kadesh a long time, compared to the time that you previously spent in a camp.
