1 So remember your creator during the days of your youth, before the evil days come and before the arrival of the years in which you will say: I have no more pleasure in those things. 
2 Before the sun is darkened [when you die], with the light, and the moon, and the stars. Before the clouds return to their place after the rain. 
3 Before that time when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men bow their thoughts, and those who grind stop because they are diminished, when those who look through the windows are darkened. 
4 When the doors are shut on the street, and the sound of the millstone is low, when one gets up at the voice of the bird, when all the daughters of singing are weakened. 
5 When they are afraid of the most high, because there are terrors in the way, when the grasshoppers struggle to move despite the fact that the almond tree has blossomed, and sexual desire is diminished. For man goes to his eternal home, and there are people crying through the streets. 
6 Before the silver cord is loosed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the bucket is broken at the fountain, or the wheel is broken at the cistern. 
7 Before the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the breath of life returns to God who had given it. 
8 Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, all is vanity. 
9 Now the preacher taught knowledge to the people, because he was wise. And he searched, and probed, and put in order many proverbs. 
10 The preacher sought out pleasant words, and all that which is written in uprightness are the words of truth. 
11 The words of wise men are like goads, and they seem to have been given by a single shepherd, while those given by the leaders of assemblies are like nails firmly fixed. [Now the preacher is wise and he is a leader.] 
12 And now, my son, learn from these things. There would always be things to say if the aim were to make a large number of books to teach wisdom, and much study is a weariness for the body. 
13 And here is the conclusion of all these speeches: Fear God and keep his commandments, for it is the whole duty of every person.
14 For God will bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or evil.
