1 Who is like the wise. And who knows the interpretation of a thing. The wisdom of a man causes his face to shine, and the severity of his face is changed. 
2 I say to you: Keep the king's commandments, because of the oath that you have sworn to God. 
3 Do not hasten to go out of the sight of the king, and do not persist in doing something that displeases him. For he can do whatever pleases him. 
4 For the word of a king is powerful [in the hearts of his servants who have made him king]. And who can say to him: What are you doing. 
5 The servant who keeps the commandment of his king will be safe from his anger, and the heart of the wise knows how to discern what is right according to the circumstances. 
6 For there is a right time and a right way for every purpose, when misfortune overwhelms a man. 
7 For he does not know what will be. For who can tell him when it will be. 
8 Man has no power over his breath to retain it, he has no power over the day of his death. It is not really he who decides the outcome of a battle, and wickedness cannot preserve the wicked. 
9 I have seen all this, and I have consider in my heart every work that is done under the sun. There is a time when man rules over man to bring misery. 
10 Then I saw the wicked buried with a grandiose memorial built for him, while those who had been righteous departed from the holy place and were forgotten in the city. This also is vanity. 
11 Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the hearts of the children of men are fully set in them to do evil. 
12 However, although a sinner may do evil a hundred times and continue in it for a long time, I also know that the best reward will be given to those who fear God, those who are afraid of his word. 
13 And the best reward will not be given to the wicked, for he will not prolong his days [by obtaining the life that lasts forever]. He will be like a shadow, because he is not afraid of the word of God. 
14 There is also this vanity that is done on the earth. There are righteous people to whom it happens according to the deeds of the wicked, and there are wicked people to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous. I say that this also is vanity. 
15 Therefore I recommend the joy [which is the inner satisfaction of having done what is honest]. For there is no better thing for a man under the sun than to eat [what is necessary for him], and to drink, and be merry [with peace of heart]. For this is what accompany him in his labor, during the days of his life that God gives him under the sun. 
16 Now I have occupied my heart to know wisdom, and to consider the things that are done on the earth, and those things that cause the eyes of men to stay awake day and night. 
17 And I have seen all the work of God [that is before my face], and I have understand that man cannot discover the thing that is done under the sun. Even though he may labor to seek it, he will not find it. And even if a wise man wants to know it, he will not be able to find it.
