1 I have occupied my heart with exploring all this, and I have seen that the righteous, and the wise, and their deeds, are in the hand of God [since he will not reward them in the same way that he will reward the wicked]. And also their emotions of love and hatred are in the hand of God. Man does not know it, although all is before them. 
2 Nevertheless, all things happen alike to all. The same fate to the righteous as to the wicked, to the good and the pure as to the impure, to the one who sacrifices as to the one who does not sacrifice, to the good as to the sinner, to the one who swears as to the one who fears to swear. 
3 And it is an evil in all that is done under the sun, the fact that there is one same fate for all. Therefore the heart of the sons of men is full of wickedness. Madness is in their heart while they live, and afterward they go to the dead.  
4 Surely anyone who is alive can have hope, and even a living dog is better than a dead lion. 
5 For the living know that they will die [but at least after some time during which something can happen], while the dead person can no longer have any initiative. They can no longer take the initiative to modify their works, and their remembrance can be forgotten among the living. 
6 And their love, and their hatred, and their envy, all have already perished. They will have no more initiative in any of the things that are done under the sun. 
7 Go your way, and eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart [that is to say the peaceful satisfaction of having an honest heart]. For God takes pleasure in the work that you do, whatever it may be. 
8 Let your garments be white at all times, and let no oil be lacking on your head. [For you contribute to the well-being of others by acting in this way.] 
9 Enjoy life with the wife whom you love [or the wives whom you love], during all the days of your life of vanity that God has given you under the sun. Yes, all the days of your vanity. For it is your portion the life, in your labor which you do under the sun. 
10 Whatever your hand finds to do, that is to say whatever you undertake from the bottom of your heart, do it rigorously. For there is neither work, nor plans, nor useful knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave where you will go. 
11 I have also seen under the sun that a race is not necessarily won by the one who is usually the fastest, and a battle is not necessarily won by the strongest, and a wise person can lack food, and those who are rich are not necessarily those who are intelligent, and those who are rewarded for their works are not necessarily those who have done something useful. For what happens to each person comes from a set of circumstances that are established by all the elements involved directly or indirectly. 
12 For man does not know his time namely all the things that determine the behavior of each of those with whom he interacts. He is like the fish that is taken in a deadly net, and like the bird that is caught in a snare. The children of men are snared thus in the times of an evil, when it falls suddenly on them. 
13 I have also seen under the sun the following wisdom, and it appeared to me as something great whose meaning is hidden.  
14 There was a small city, with few men in it, and a great king came to fight against it. And he surrounded it, and he built camps all around for his army. 
15 And there was a poor and wise man there in the city, and he saved the city by his wisdom. Nevertheless no one remembered that poor man afterward. 
16 Therefore I say: Wisdom is better than strength, but the wisdom of the poor is despised and his words are not heard. 
17 The words of the wise which are heard in discretion are better than the shouting of him who rules among the foolish. 
18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner can destroy much goods.
