1 The meditations of the preacher, the son of David and king in Jerusalem. [His understanding of the nature of Yahweh the God of Israel.]
2 Vanity of vanities, says the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. 
3 What advantage does a man have from all the trouble that he suffers under the sun. 
4 One generation goes, and another generation comes, but the earth remains continuously. 
5 The sun arises, and the sun goes down toward its place from where it will arise again. 
6 One time the wind blows toward the south, and another time it blows toward the north. Thus the wind can blow all around by returning continually on its paths. 
7 All the rivers go into the sea, or almost all, and yet the sea is not full. And the rivers continue to go to the place where they go. 
8 All things are in work beyond what we can say. And the eye is not satisfied with seeing, and the ear never tires of hearing. 
9 As for the fundamental motivations that determine the individual behaviors of men, what is done today is what has already been done before. And what will be done in the future is what will have already been done before. There is nothing new under the sun. 
10 If there is a behavior about which one say, 'Look at this, it is new'. Then this behavior has already existed in the times that preceded us. 
11 People do not take care to remember in an appropriate way what is ancient. And what is happening today will not be correctly understood by those who will come after. 
12 I the preacher have been king over Israel and my royal house was in Jerusalem. 
13 I have occupied my heart with the research and examination of the wisdom contained in everything that is done under the heaven. This is a painful occupation to which God submits the sons of men. 
14 And I have considered all the works that are being done under the sun. And behold, all this trouble that I have given myself has been a vanity and the pursuit of the wind. 
15 That which is crooked cannot be straightened, since one cannot modify the past but only learn from it, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. 
16 I have thought in my heart: Behold I have become great and surpassed in wisdom all those who have been before me in Jerusalem. My heart has acquired a lot of wisdom and knowledge. 
17 I have occupied my heart with the study of how wisdom works, and of how foolishness works, and of how madness works. And I understood that all this is also the pursuit of the wind. 
18 For with a lot of wisdom one has a lot of sorrow, and whoever increases his knowledge increases his pain.
