1 Cast your bread on the waters, for after many days you will find it again. [In other words, do not tire of wishing the well-being of others, because a benefit will be granted to you in return even if it is after a long time.] 
2 Give a portion to seven, and also to eight. For you do not know what misfortune may befall the earth. [In other words, it is necessary to diversify your sources of income because an unexpected event may affect certain particular activities] 
3 When the clouds are full of rain, they pour it on the earth. And if a tree falls to the south or to the north, then it remains where it has fallen [since it will not move on its own initiative]. 
4 He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who observes the clouds will not reap. [You have to do what needs to be done, even in circumstances where you are not very comfortable.] 
5 As you do not know the way of the breath of life, or how bones grow in the womb of a pregnant woman, so you do not know the work of God who makes all things. 
6 Sow your seed in the morning, and do not let your hand rest in the evening. For you do not know whether only that thing will prosper or only that other thing, or whether both will be good. 
7 Surely the light is a pleasant thing, and it is a good thing for the eyes to see the sun. 
8 If someone lives many years, then it is good for him to rejoice during all those years, that is to say, it is good for him to seek the true joy which comes from the peace of an honest heart. For he must also remember that he is going to die, and that his days in darkness will be more numerous, and that he will no longer be able to have initiative.
9 O young man, if your desire is to rejoice in your youth, if your heart seeks amusement in the days of your youth, if your works are to fulfill the lusts of your heart and of your eyes, then know that God will bring you into judgment for all these things. [For the spirit of God does not distinguish between young and old when he identifies wickedness and establishes punishments.]
10 Therefore take away sadness of your heart, but also keep away the evil from your flesh [in other words remove evil from your deeds]. For childhood and youth are vanity.
