1 And I have said in my heart: Come now, and I will test you with joy. Therefore enjoy the pleasant things. 
2 And behold, this also was vanity. And I have said of laughter, You are mad. And I have said of joy, What is it for. 
3 And I have resolved in my heart to comfort my flesh with wine, while leading my heart with wisdom. And I have tried this foolishness in order to identify what is good for the children of men to do under the heaven during all the days of their life.
4 And I have made my great works. I have built houses for myself, and planted vineyards for myself. 
5 And I have made gardens and orchards for myself, and I have planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. 
6 And I made cisterns of water, in order to water the forest and make the trees grow. 
7 And I have bought menservants and maidservants, and I have had children born in the house. And I had great possessions of herds and flocks, more than all those who had been before me in Jerusalem. 
8 And I have gathered for myself silver and gold, and the treasures that I received from kings and from provinces. I have gotten for myself men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men namely a wife and mistresses. 
9 I have become great, and I have been more exalted than all those who were before me in Jerusalem. And my wisdom stayed with me. 
10 And whatever my eyes have desired, I have not withheld it from them. And I have not withheld any joy from my heart. For my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion of all my labor. 
11 Then I have considered all the works that my hands had done, and how I had labored to perform them. And behold, all is vanity and the pursuit of the wind. There is no advantage in the greatness of the works that we do under the sun [but only in the reasons why we do them]. 
12 Then I have turned my eyes toward wisdom, and toward folly, and toward madness. For what will the man who succeeds the king do, if not that which has already been done. 
13 And I have seen that wisdom is better than folly, as light is better than darkness. 
14 For the eyes of the wise man are in his head [that is to say in his understanding], while the fool walks in darkness. But I have also perceived that the same event happens to both of them. 
15 And I have thought in my heart: What happens to the fool will happen to me also. Why then should I take care to be wiser. 
16 And I have said in my heart, This also is vanity. For the remembrance of the wise is not more eternal than that of the foolish. And in most cases, both become anonymous after their deaths. The wise man and the fool will both die. 
17 Therefore I have begun to hate life, because the work that is done under the sun grieved me. For all is vanity and the pursuit of the wind. 
18 And I have also begun to hate all the labor that I had done under the sun. For I will leave it to the man who will be after me. 
19 And who knows whether he will be wise or foolish. Nevertheless he will have the power over all my labor that are the fruit of my wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity. 
20 Therefore I have given my heart to despair, because of all the labor that I had done under the sun. 
21 For there is a man whose labor has been done with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skillfulness. And he will leave the fruit of his labor to a man who has not contributed to it. This also is vanity and a great grief. 
22 For what has a man of all his labor, and of the trouble of his heart by which he has labored under the sun. 
23 For all his days are sorrow, and his labor is grief. Yes, his heart has no rest even in the night. This also is vanity. 
24 There is no happiness for man except to eat and drink, and to make his soul enjoy the well-being while doing his work. And I have seen that this also comes from the hand of God. 
25 For who should eat what is necessary and enjoy a true well-being except I [who am pleasing to God]. 
26 For the man who pleases God receives wisdom, and knowledge, and true joy. But to the sinner he gives the grief of gathering and keeping in reserve, in order to give it to him who pleases God. This also is vanity and the pursuit of the wind.
