1 Dead flies pollute and putrefy the oil of the perfumer. In the same way, an act of folly ruins the reputation of one who is known for wisdom or honor. 
2 The heart of the wise is at his right hand, and the heart of the fool at his left hand. 
3 And when a fool walks in the way, his understanding fails him and he lets everyone know that he is a fool. 
4 If the spirit of a ruler rises up against you, then do not leave your place. For calmness prevents great sins. 
5 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and the simple-minded may think that it is an error of the one who reigns over all things [that is to say an error of God]. 
6 Those who have folly in them very often occupy high positions, while those who are rich in wisdom are very often in abasement. 
7 I have seen servants on horses, that is to say those who deserve to be servants because of the personal characteristics of their souls, while princes were walking on the ground like servants, that is to say those who deserve to be exalted because of the personal characteristics of their souls. 
8 He who digs a pit will fall into it [in other words the one who designs deceptions to cause the destruction of others is trapping also his own soul]. And he who breaks down a wall will be bitten by a serpent [in other words the one who hurts others without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart will be smitten by God].
9 He who moves stones will be hurt by it [in other words the one who wilfully perverts justice will not go unpunished]. And he who splits wood puts himself in danger [in other words the one who plans deceptions puts himself in danger]. 
10 If he has blunt the iron, and has not sharpened the edge, then he will have to put more strength. But wisdom has the advantage of success. 
11 If a serpent bites before being charmed, then the charmer is of no further use for the victim since he cannot change the past [and it is rather a doctor who should be looked for]. 
12 The words of the mouth of a wise man are gracious, but the lips of a fool devour also his own soul. 
13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his speech is wicked madness. 
14 A fool multiplies the words as should do the one who can announce the future. Nevertheless a man does not know what will happen in the period of time that he has left to live. And who can tell him what will be after him. 
15 The work that is done wholeheartedly by a fool wearies him, because he does not know how to go to the city [in other words he does not know the way of wisdom]. 
16 Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child and your leaders [the advisors of the king] eat early in the morning. 
17 Blessed are you, O land, when your king loves the instruction of wisdom and your leaders eat in order to sustain their strength and not for drunkenness. 
18 When the hands are idle, the roof of the house is deteriorating. And when hands are lazy, the roof of the house leaks. 
19 One makes a feast for laughter, and wine gives comfort, and money has an answer to everything. 
20 Do not curse the king, not even in your thought. And do not curse the rich in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice, and thus a winged creature may tell your words [and then you will have to give an answer to those whom you have offended].
