1 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and it happens often among men. 
2 There is a man to whom God has given riches, and wealth, and honor, and he lacks nothing of all that his soul desires. But God has not given him the power to enjoy it, and it is other persons who enjoy it. This is vanity and a grievous evil. 
3 If a man begets a hundred children, and lives many years so that the days of his years are many, but his soul has not taken a peaceful pleasure in the work that he has done wholeheartedly, and he did not participate in a work that is useful in the lives of others and thus deserves to be inscribed on his tombstone, then I say that a baby who dies at birth is better than this man. 
4 For the baby has come in vanity, and has gone in darkness, and his name will be covered with darkness. 
5 He has not seen the sun, and he does not know all the sufferings that are under the sun. Therefore his rest is more pleasant than that of the man described previously. 
6 For although this man might have lived two thousand years, the fact is that he did not experience a peaceful pleasure and both persons will go to the same place which is the place of those who have died. 
7 All the work of man is for his mouth, that is to say to please his heart, and yet his appetite is never satisfied. 
8 For how can one describe the advantage that the wise man has over the foolish. What advantage has the poor man who knows how to behave himself in the presence of the living. 
9 Surely what the eyes see is better than the wandering of desires. For the wandering of desires is also vanity and the pursuit of the wind. 
10 Whatever exists has already been named, and what a man can do has already been known. A man cannot contend with the creator. 
11 Surely there are many things that increase vanity. But who knows how it can help a person. 
12 For who knows what is good for a man in life, during all the days of his vanity which he spends like a shadow. For who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun.
