1 There is an appointed time for everything, a time for every purpose under the heaven. 
2 A time to be born, and a time to die. A time to plant, and a time to uproot what has been planted. 
3 A time to kill, and a time to heal. A time to break down, and a time to build. 
4 A time to weep, and a time to laugh. A time to lament, and a time to dance. 
5 A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. 
6 A time to search, and a time to lose. A time to keep, and time to cast away. 
7 A time to tear, and time to sew. A time to remain silent, and a time to speak. 
8 A time to love, and a time to hate. A time for war, and a time for peace. 
9 What is the advantage of one who designs great works. 
10 I have seen the occupation that God has given to the sons of men, in order to humble them. 
11 He does any good thing at the appropriate time. And he has put into their hearts the thought of eternity, although man cannot understand the work that God has done from the beginning to the end. 
12 And I acknowledge that there is no good in them, if not to rejoice and to do good during their life.
13 And also that if a man can eat and drink what is necessary for him, and have real satisfaction concerning the work that he has done wholeheartedly, then it is a gift from God. 
14 For I know that whatever [the holy spirit of] God does with all his heart will last forever, and nothing can be added or removed from his work. And God acts thus in order to be feared. 
15 As for the fundamental motivations that determine the individual behaviors of men, what is happening now has been before, and what will be in the future has already been before. For God brings back what is past. 
16 I have also seen under the sun that in the place established to judge there is wickedness, and in the place established for righteousness there is wickedness. 
17 And I have said in my heart: God will judge the righteous and the wicked. For there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.
18 And I have said in my heart, concerning the children of men: God has humbled them, so that they may see by themselves that they are but beasts. 
19 For the fate of the children of men and the fate of the beasts are for them the same fate. As one dies, thus the other dies. They all have one breath, and man is not superior to beast when we consider this fact. For all is vanity. 
20 They all go to the same place. Each of them comes from dust, and each of them will return to dust. 
21 And who knows if the spirit of a human goes upward to the sky and if the spirit of the beast goes downward in the earth. 
22 Therefore I have perceived that there is nothing better for a human than to rejoice in his works, since it is his portion. For who will make him enjoy what will be after him.
