1 Take heed to your foot when you enter into the house of God. Come near in order to hear rather than to offer the sacrifice of fools. For they know not that they do evil. 
2 Do not open your mouth rashly. Do not let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God. For God is in the heaven, and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few. 
3 For the voice of the fool is heard in the multitude of his words, like a dream comes from the multitude of activities. 
4 When you have made a vow to God, delay not in fulfilling it. For God has no pleasure in fools. Fulfill what you have vowed. 
5 It is better for you to refrain from making a vow, rather than not to fulfill a vow that you have made.
6 Suffer not your mouth to cause your flesh to sin. Do not say in the presence of the messenger that it was an error. Why should you want God to be angry at your voice and to destroy the work of your hands. 
7 For there is vanity in the multitude of words, like there are vanities in the multitude of dreams. Therefore fear God. 
8 If you see in a province the oppression of the poor, and the violation of justice and righteousness, then do not be astonished by the situation [since the real culprits are not necessarily in front of you]. For a high man is placed under the supervision of a higher one, and above them there are higher ones. 
9 For the greatest advantage of a land is to have a king [or a higher authority] who really wants to serve the people of the land. 
10 He who loves money will never be satisfied with the money that he has, and he who loves riches will never be satisfied with the riches that he has. This also is vanity. 
11 When riches increase, those who accumulate them for pleasure also increase. And what advantage does such an owner derive from it, except that he sees it with his eyes. 
12 He whose activities are honest has a sweet sleep, whether he eats little or much. But the satiety of him who eats the fruit of deceit, or of him who accumulates goods only for pleasure, does not give him peace. 
13 There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun, in the fact that the riches accumulated by a person should normally give him sadness. 
14 For they can be lost by sudden unfortunate events, and nothing is left in the hand of the son whom he begot. 
15 Moreover, each person will return naked to the dust as he has come naked out of his mother's womb. There is nothing of his labor that he can carry away in his hand. 
16 And this is also a grievous evil. For he will go away only with what he had brought in the world. And what is his benefit in the fact that he has labored for wind. 
17 Moreover, all his days he eats in darkness [without understanding the purpose of life], and he has much sorrow, and pain, and anger. 
18 Behold the following thing is what I have seen. It is good and pleasant for a man to eat and to drink, and to take pleasure in all the labor that he labors under the sun, during all the days of his life which God has given him. For this is his portion. 
19 And if God has given a man riches and wealth, and if God has also given him the opportunity to enjoy it properly by giving him a good health and freedom, if he can thus rejoice in his labor with the peace of an honest heart, then it is a gift of God. 
20 Surely he will not remember the pain with which he performed all his labors, since God has also given joy to his heart.
