1 A good reputation is better than a good perfume, and the day of death is better than the day of birth. 
2 It is better to go to a house where there is mourning than to go to a house where there is entertainment. For every person must die, and the living person who acts in this way will remember that his days are limited and that his heart should not waste his time in the search for bad pleasures. [A bad pleasure is the one that do not come from a work that can be useful for strangers arbitrarily chosen in society.] 
3 Sincere dissatisfaction is better than laughter. For the heart can rejoice about an honest achievement while the face is concerned about improvement. [Indeed, a laugh is inappropriate if it is not caused by the observation of a lack of common sense in a particular deed of a person who is also displaying his pride in the same event.] 
4 The heart of the wise thinks about the day of his death and of the honest deeds that he will have done before that day, while the heart of the fool actually desires only to entertain himself. 
5 It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the flattery of the fools. 
6 For the laughter of the fool is like the noise of thorns that burn briefly in a fire under the boiler. This also is vanity. 
7 Surely a wise man who is oppressed can become mad. And also a gift can corrupt the heart of a man. 
8 The end of a thing is better than its beginning, and a patient spirit is better than a haughty spirit.
9 Do not be hasty in your spirit to be angry, for anger dwells in the bosom of fools. 
10 Do not say, Why were the days of old better than these ones. For it is not by wisdom that you think in this way. [Who can give utility to the legacy of a person if God has already given that legacy to contempt.]
11 Wisdom is worth more than an inheritance, for it is the best thing for those who see the sun. 
12 For one can take refuge in the shadow of wisdom as one takes refuge in the shadow of money, but an advantage of the knowledge of wisdom is that it gives life to those who possess it. 
13 Consider the work of God. For who can straighten a thing that he has bent. 
14 Be comforted during the days of your prosperity, and cogitate during the days of your affliction. God has made the two kinds of days, so that man does not discover what will be after him. 
15 I have seen all things during the days of my vanity. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who continues to be alive for a long time in his wickedness. 
16 Do not be overly fair, and do not make yourself too wise. For why should you want to destroy yourself. [For there is necessarily a little subjectivity in the notion of justice.] 
17 Do not be too wicked, and do not be foolish. For why should you want to die quickly.
18 It is good to keep that word, and not to neglect that other word. For he who fears God will be saved from destruction by keeping all his word. 
19 Wisdom makes the wise stronger than ten rulers who are in the city. [For God cares more for the preservation of him who fears God than for the preservation of those who are exalted among men.] 
20 Surely there is no righteous man on the earth who does good and who never sins. [Such a person would not be an ordinary person.] 
21 Therefore do not exaggerate the importance of every word that are spoken if you can understand the context in which it has been spoken, for even your servant can curse you without a real malice. 
22 For you know that your heart has also sometimes cursed others.
23 I have probed all this by wisdom. And when I wanted to be wiser than others and not wise with others, then wisdom has moved away from me. 
24 What is far, what is exceedingly deep, who can find it. 
25 Then I have set all my heart to know, and to probe, and to seek the wisdom and the reason of things, and to know the madness of wickedness and the stupidity of foolishness. 
26 And I have found that a woman can be more bitter than the thought of preparing to die, when her arms are like chains and her heart is a trap and a net. He who is pleasing to God will escape from such a woman, but the sinner will be taken by her. 
27 And now here is what I have found, said the preacher, while examining things one by one to grasp the reason. 
28 The following thing is what my soul is still looking for, what I have not found: I have found one honest man among a thousand, but I have not found a woman among them all [and therefore they are much rarer]. 
29 And here is the only other thing that I have found: God has made human beings upright, but they have sought many detours. [That is to say, they do not want to act with simplicity.]
