1 Therefore be imitators of [the spirit of] God, as beloved children. 
2 And walk in love, following the example of Christ, who has loved us and has given himself to God for us as an offering and a sacrifice of a pleasant smell.
3 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints. 
4 Let there be no dishonest words, no foolish talk, nor coarse joking, things which are contrary to decency. But rather let there be expressions of thanksgiving. 
5 For you may be sure of this: neither immoral, nor unclean person, nor covetous person, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Such persons are worshipers of false gods through the things that concern them. 
6 Let no one deceive you with futile words. For it is because of those things that the wrath of God comes on the sons of disobedience. 
7 Therefore do not seek their company. 
8 For formerly you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. 
9 For the fruit of the Spirit consists of all goodness, and righteousness, and truth. 
10 Examine everything that you do, in order to seek what is pleasing to the Lord. 
11 And have no fellowship with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather condemn them. 
12 For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret [that is to say, in the secrecy of their motivations and of the knowledge at their disposal]. 
13 Anything that is not ready to be exposed [in a situation that would require it and in the presence of a being who knows everything] will be revealed by the light. For everything is made manifest by the light. 
14 Therefore he says: Wake up, you who sleep. Arise from the dead, and Christ will enlighten you. [Now this is not found in the scriptures. It may be a personal rephrasing of the prophecies of the scriptures, or a saying that emerged at some point in time as a result of the prophecies of the scriptures.] 
15 Therefore you must live circumspectly, that is to say, not as fools but as wise. 
16 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
17 Therefore do not be foolish, but learn what the Lord wants you to do. 
18 And do not get drunk with wine, because it is a futility. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. 
19 By speaking to one another in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melodies in your heart to the Lord. [Now Paul said this thing because songs are also a way to convey a message, so that the lyrics and melodies can attract the attention of those who are unfamiliar with the gospel or serve as a reminder to those who are already familiar with it, especially in communities where writing is not very widespread. But everyone receives a particular gift from God, one in one person way and another person in another way, and if a person wishes to be fully filled with the Spirit which is spirit of Christ, it is enough to become accustomed to inventing or remembering sentences that have a deep meaning for understanding the gospel of Christ. It is not essential to sing.] 
20 By giving thanks always for all things to God the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
21 By submitting yourselves to one another in the fear of God. 
22 Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord. 
23 For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, being himself the savior of his body. 
24 Therefore let the wives submit to their own husbands in everything, as the church is submitted to Christ. 
25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. 
26 In order to sanctify it, namely to cleanse it by the word as if it had been done with the washing of water. [Now Jesus Christ created a church that is his body, but there was a church before Jesus Christ, and it was formed by all the people of all nations who each sought in his own way a personal relationship with a God of justice, a God who is a living being separated from creation and who does not want his disciples to offend anyone without a publicly acceptable justification, that is to say, a justification acceptable even by a person who does not believe in any God. Job and Balaam belonged to this early form of the church, and it is Jesus Christ who has revealed the identity of the God of justice in order to unite all the disciples of this God and thus create a nation without a territory.] 
27 In order to make it a glorious church for himself, a church without spot or wrinkle or anything similar, but holy and blameless. 
28 So husbands should love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. 
29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does for the church.  
30 For we are members of his body. 
31 That is why a man will leave his father and mother, and will join his wife, and the two will become one flesh.  
32 This mystery is great. I say this in relation to Christ and the church. 
33 And now, each of you must love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband.
