1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. 
2 Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places. 
4 In accordance with the fact that he chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world, so that we should be holy and blameless before him concerning love. 
5 Having predestined us to receive adoption through Jesus Christ in order to become his own children, according to the good pleasure of his will. 
6 To the praise of the glory of his grace, which he has bestowed on us through his beloved the Christ. 
7 In whom we have redemption through his blood, namely the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. 
8 Which he has lavished on us in all wisdom and understanding. 
9 Having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he had purposed in himself. 
10 In order to put it into execution at the fullness of the times, to bring together all things in Christ, both those that are in heaven and those that are on earth.
11 It is also in Christ that we have become heirs, having been predestined according to the purpose of the one who works all things in accordance with the counsel of his own will. 
12 So that we may serve to the praise of his glory, we who have hoped in Christ beforehand [that is to say, we who were not born with the perfect knowledge of Christ but who have always had within ourselves a kind of love for justice]. 
13 In whom also you have now placed your trust, after you have heard [and understood] the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. In whom also, when you have believed, you have been sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise. 
14 Which is a guarantee of our inheritance, for the redemption of those whom God has acquired for the praise of his glory. 
15 Therefore I also, having heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. 
16 I do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers.
17 To wish that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, will strengthen you in the spirit of wisdom and revelation for the knowledge of his person. 
18 So that the eyes of your understanding may be enlightened, and so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. 
19 And so that you may know what is the immense greatness of his power towards us who believe, how it manifests itself effectively by the virtue of his strength. 
20 He unfolded it in Christ, when he raised him from the dead and set him at his right hand in the heavenly places. 
21 Far above all principality, and authority, and power, and dominion, and every name that can be named, not only in this world but also in that which is to come. 
22 And God has put all things under the feet of Christ, and has made him head over everything in the church. 
23 Which is the body of Christ, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
