1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. 
2 Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise. 
3 So that you may live long on the earth, and so that it may go well with you. 
4 And you, fathers, do not exasperate your children, but raise them in the discipline and the guidance learned from the Lord. 
5 Servants, obey your earthly masters with respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you obey Christ. 
6 Not only before their eyes, as if to please men, but as servants of Christ, doing with a good heart the will of God. [For no one does anything without having some justification within himself, and Christ has revealed that the will of God is that every person should always possess within himself a publicly acceptable justification concerning his behavior, whatever that person may be doing.] 
7 Serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord and not people. [And indeed, it is the Lord that you are serving if you possess within yourself a justification that you know to be publicly acceptable.] 
8 Knowing that each person, whether slave or free, will receive from the Lord according to what he has done well. 
9 And you, masters, treat your slaves in the same way, and refrain from threatening. Knowing that both their master and yours is in heaven, and that there no respect for the face of a person with him. 
10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his great power. 
11 Put on the whole armor of God, in order to be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. 
12 For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the authorities, against the powers of darkness of this world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. 
13 Therefore put on the whole armor of God, so that you may be able to withstand when the day of evil comes, and to continue to stand after all the troubles. 
14 Be firm therefore, having girded your waist with the truth as a belt, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. 
15 And put the zeal that the gospel of peace gives as a shoe on your feet. 
16 And above all, take the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. 
17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. 
18 Make all kinds of prayers and supplications at all times by the Spirit. Do this with full perseverance, and pray for all the saints. 
19 And pray also for me, so that words may be given to me when I open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. 
20 For which I am an ambassador in chains, so that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.
21 And now, Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything, so that you too may know what concerns me and what I am doing. 
22 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, so that you may know how we are and so that he may comfort your hearts. 
23 Peace be to the brothers, and love of faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
24 Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love.
