1 I therefore exhort you, I the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily in the calling to which you have been called. 
2 With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. 
3 Endeavouring to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. 
4 There is one body and one Spirit, just as you have been called to one hope by your calling. 
5 There is one Lord, one faith, one baptism. 
6 One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in all. 
7 But to each of us the grace is given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. 
8 Therefore it is said: When he ascended on high, he led away captives, and he gave gifts to men. 
9 Now what does it mean that he ascended, except that he also descended into the lower parts of the earth. 
10 He who descended is the same who ascended above all heavens, so that he might fill all things. 
11 And he gave some to be apostles, and some to be prophets, and some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers. 
12 For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry and the edifying of the body of Christ. 
13 Until we have all reached the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to the perfect state of man, to the measure of the full stature of Christ. 
14 So that we are no longer children, floating and carried away by every wind of doctrine, by the deception of men, by their cunning in the means of seduction. 
15 But so that, by speaking the truth in love, we may grow in all things into him who is the head, namely Christ. 
16 It is from him, and thanks to all the links of his assistance, that the whole body, well coordinated and forming a solid structure, draws its increase according to the strength that suits each of its parts, and edifies itself in love. 
17 Therefore the following thing is what I say and testify in the Lord: you must no longer live as the other Gentiles do, those who walk according to the vanity of their thoughts. 
18 Their understanding is darkened and they are strangers to the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. 
19 Not possessing all the feelings of genuineness, they give themselves to lasciviousness, to commit every kind of impurity joined to greed. 
20 As for you, this is not what you have learned from Christ. 
21 If at least you have heard him, and have been taught by him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. [That is to say, someone can tell you about it, but it is Jesus himself who teaches inside you to enable you to understand by yourself.] 
22 To strip yourselves, in view of your past life, of your old self who is corrupted by deceitful lusts. 
23 And to be renewed in the spirit of your thoughts. 
24 And to put on the new man, created according to God in a righteousness and a holiness that is produced by the truth. 
25 Therefore abandon falsity [that is to say, do not mislead anyone without having a publicly acceptable justification in your heart], and let each of you speak the truth to his neighbor. For we are members of one another. 
26 If you become angry, then do not sin, do not let the sun go down on your anger. 
27 And do not give access to the devil. 
28 Let the one who used to steal stop stealing, and instead let him work, doing with his hands what is good, so that he may have something to give to those who are in need. 
29 Let no corrupt speech proceed out of your mouth, but instead, if necessary, some good words which serve for edification so that they may give grace to those who hear it. 
30 Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you have been sealed for the day of redemption. 
31 Let all bitterness, and all animosity, and all anger, and all clamor, and all slander, and all wickedness, disappear from among you. 
32 Be kind to one another, compassionate, forgiving one another, just as God has forgiven you in Christ.
