1 You were dead through your trespasses and sins. 
2 In which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the children of disobedience. 
3 Among whom also we all once lived in the lusts of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath as others. 
4 But God, being rich in mercy, and because of his great love with which he loved us, has made us alive together with Christ when we were dead in our sins. 
5 For it is by grace that you are saved. 
6 He has raised us up with Christ Jesus, and has made us sit with him in the heavenly places. 
7 So that in the ages to come he may show the immeasurable riches of his grace through his kindness toward us who belong to Christ Jesus. 
8 For it is by grace that you are saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. 
9 It is not because of the very nature of the works that we do [but solely because of the justifications that we possess while we are doing what we do], so that no one should boast. 
10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand so that we should walk in them. 
11 Therefore you who were formerly Gentiles in the flesh, called uncircumcised by those who are called circumcised and who are circumcised in the flesh by the hand of man.
12 Remember that at that time you were without Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, without hope and without God in the world. [Now this is true if we consider people according to their communities, since only the children of Jacob received written laws from the holy spirit of God. But if we consider people individually, then the holy spirit of God manifested itself to people who did not belong to the tribes of Israel, such as Job and Balaam.] 
13 But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
14 For he is our peace, he who has made the two one [namely the Jews and the non-Jews]. For he has broken down the wall of separation and enmity. 
15 Having abolished in his flesh the law of ordinances in its prescriptions, in order to create in himself with the two a single new man, thus establishing peace. 
16 He has reconciled the two with God by making them one body through the cross, destroying enmity through it. 
17 He came and preached peace to you who were far away, and to those who were near. 
18 For through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. 
19 Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and outsiders, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God. [Now this is true if we consider people according to their communities, since only the children of Jacob received written laws from the holy spirit of God. But if we consider people individually, then the holy spirit of God manifested itself to people who did not belong to the tribes of Israel, such as Job and Balaam.] 
20 You have been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the cornerstone. 
21 In him the whole building, well coordinated, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. 
22 In him you are also edified to be a dwelling place of God by the Spirit.
