1 Because of that, I Paul, the prisoner of Christ for you Gentiles. 
2 If at least you have heard of the work of the grace of God which has been given to me for you. 
3 It is by revelation that I became aware of the mystery on which I have just written in a few words. 
4 By reading those words, you can imagine the understanding that I have of the mystery of Christ. 
5 It had not been revealed to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to the holy apostles and prophets of Christ. 
6 This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow-heirs, and fellow-members of the body, and fellow-partakers of the promise that God has fulfilled in Christ through the gospel. 
7 Of which I have been made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God which has been given to me by the efficacy of his power. 
8 To me who am the least of all saints, this grace has been given to proclaim to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. 
9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery hidden from all time in God who created all things. 
10 So that the principalities and the authorities in the heavenly places may know today through the church the infinitely varied wisdom of God. 
11 According to the eternal purpose which he carried out in Jesus Christ our Lord. 
12 In whom we have, through faith in him, the liberty to approach God with confidence. 
13 Therefore I ask you not to lose courage when you see my tribulations for you. For they are your glory. 
14 Because of that, I bow my knees to the Father. 
15 From whom every family in heaven and on earth takes its name. 
16 In order to pray him to give you, according to the riches of his glory, the grace to be powerfully strengthened by his Spirit in the inner man. 
17 So that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. 
18 So that being rooted and founded in the love of Christ, you may understand with all the saints what is its width, and its length, and its depth, and its height. 
19 So that you may know the love of Christ, which surpasses all knowledge, so that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. 
20 Now to him who can do, through the power that works in us, infinitely beyond all that we ask or think. 
21 To him be the praise in the Church through Jesus Christ, in all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
