1 And in the twelfth month which is the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month when the king's commandments and his decrees were to be implemented, those who were enemies of the Jews hoped to dominate them. But it was the opposite that happened, for the Jews dominated those who hated them. 
2 For the Jews gathered together in their cities throughout all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, in order to lay their hand on those who were seeking to hurt them. And no man could resist them, and it was because of a fear of the Jews that many persons among all the peoples had not tried to attack them. 
3 And all the leaders in the provinces, and the officers, and the governors, and those who worked in matters concerning the king, they helped the Jews because they were afraid of Mordecai. 
4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame spread throughout all the provinces. For this man Mordecai had become more and more powerful. 
5 Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the sword. They killed their enemies and destroyed them, and did what they wanted to the those who hated them. 
6 In the city of Shushan the Jews smote and killed five hundred men. 
7 And they killed Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha. 
8 And Poratha, and Adalia, and Aridatha. 
9 And Parmashta, and Arizai, and Aridai, and Vaizatha. 
10 They were the ten sons of Haman, the enemy of the Jews who was the son of Hammedatha. But the Jews did not lay their hands on the spoil. 
11 The number of those who had been killed in the city of Shushan was reported to the king on the same day. 
12 And the king said to queen Esther: The Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred men and the ten sons of Haman in the city of Shushan. So we can imagine the magnitude of what they may have done in all the other provinces [because there were certainly more people elsewhere who were determined to attack them there, since there were so many here]. And now tell me what your request is so that I may grant it to you. What do you still want. For it will be fulfilled. 
13 And Esther replied: If it pleases the king, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Shushan to act again tomorrow according to the decree of today. And let them hang the ten sons of Haman [their dead bodies] on gibbets. 
14 And the king commanded to do so. And they published a new decree for the city of Shushan, and they also hanged the ten sons of Haman [their dead bodies]. 
15 So the Jews who were in the city of Shushan gathered together again on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar, and they killed three hundred men of those who tried to attack them in the city of Shushan [because there were still people who were willing to attack them]. But the Jews did not lay their hands on the spoil. 
16 So the other Jews who were in the king's provinces had gathered together and defended their lives. And they had given themselves rest by saving themselves from the hand of their enemies, and they had killed seventy five thousand persons of those who tried to attack them. But the Jews had not laid their hands on the spoil. 
17 Those Jews in the provinces had acted thus on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar. And the next day, on the fourteenth day of the month, they had rested [in each of their cities] and had made feasts and rejoicings. 
18 But the Jews who were in the city of Shushan had gathered together on both the thirteenth day and the fourteenth day. And the next day, on the fifteenth day of the month, they rested and made a feast and rejoicings. 
19 Therefore the Jews who live in the villages and in unwalled cities [some of those who were not concerned with the particular events of the city of Shushan] make the fourteenth day of the month of Adar a day of rejoicings and of feasting, namely a joyful day in which everyone send portions to his neighbor. 
20 And later Mordecai wrote these things, and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, both near and far. 
21 He commanded them to celebrate every year the fourteenth day of the month of Adar, and also the fifteenth day of the same month. 
22 And to do so because of the days [both in the main city and in other cities] in which the Jews had rested from the hand of their enemies, and because of the month in which their sadness had completely changed into joy, and their mourning into feast. And that these days should be days of rejoicings and feasts, in which everyone send portions to his neighbor and gifts to the poor. 
23 And the Jews agreed to continue doing what they had begun, and to comply with what Mordecai had written to them. 
24 For Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had planned to destroy the Jews and had cast Pur [that is to say the lot] to consume and destroy them. 
25 And when Esther came before the king, the king commanded by letters in favor of the Jews. For the king say: Let this wicked plan that Haman has devised against the Jews be brought back on his own head, and let them hang him and his sons on gibbets. 
26 Therefore they called these days Purim, by the name of Pur. And because of all the words of the letter that Mordecai wrote to them, and because of what they themselves had observed concerning the occurrence of all these events, and because of what had happened to them, the Jews decreed and made a covenant for themselves, and for their descendants, and for all those who would join them. 
27 And they announced that they will not fail to do it, but will observe these two days according to what had been written and at their appointed times each year. 
28 And they announced that these days were to be remembered and celebrated throughout every generation, and in every family, and in every province, and in every city. And that these days of Purim should never be abolished from among the Jews, and that the remembrance of these days should never perish from among their descendants. [Now Moses had instructed the tribes of Jacob not to add to or take away from the commandments that he had given, but David created a precedent by replacing the most holy place of the tabernacle of the testimony with something more beautiful.] 
29 And queen Esther the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew [Mordecai is designated in this way because he was anxious to put into practice what he knew of the laws given by Moses, and this included at least the ten commandments], they wrote a second letter with all authority to confirm the establishment of Purim. [In other words to confirm to all the children of Jacob who were scattered throughout the provinces of the kingdom that a certain number of wise men among their brothers had decided that it should be so.] 
30 And Mordecai sent the letters, namely the copies of his second letter, to all the Jews in the one hundred and twenty seven provinces of king Ahasuerus. [Now a certain number of the children of Jacob had already returned to the promised land in those days. For these events occurred long after the Medes and the Persians had conquered the kingdom of Babylon in the days of Cyrus king of Persia, and after Cyrus king of Persia had decreed the voluntary return of all the captives in the first year of his domination of the kingdom of Babylon, because the children of Jacob had not left the promised land before the periods of destruction of the kingdom of Israel and of the kingdom of Judah. Therefore king Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over one hundred and twenty seven provinces was one of the persons who successively succeeded king Cyrus over time. So there had already been the reconstruction of the house that bore the name of Yahweh in Jerusalem and that was the place of service of the Jewish priests, but the promised land was into the great kingdom of king Ahasuerus. It is understood then that if no reference is made to the temple of Yahweh or to the city of Jerusalem in the whole account of these events, it is because the true God of Israel is the spirit of Yahweh who can only live in the hearts of living things and who can be found in several places on earth at the same time since it is only his angels who manifest themselves in visions and dreams. Thus there were many of the children of Jacob who had not returned to the promised land in those days, and who had remained dispersed among the nations where they had been able to settle. They might not have felt the need to return to the promised land because they had been able to see that Yahweh had allowed some persons to become prophets among the people who had just been taken captive to Babylon few years before the destruction of the kingdom of Judah, and one can think that the attachment to Yahweh for these people must have consisted solely in the practice of the ten commandments.] 
31 These letters contained words of peace and truth, and confirmed these days of Purim in their appointed times as Mordecai the Jew and queen Esther had enjoined them, and as the children of Israel had already instituted in the past for themselves and for their descendants some other days of remembrance that concerned sad events [like the weeping for the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite at the time of the judges of Israel, or the fasting for the destruction of the holy place namely the temple of Yahweh at the time of the captivity of the people of Jerusalem]. 
32 So the commandment of Esther confirmed the ordinance of Purim, and it was written in a book. [Queen Esther did not have a religious authority over those of the children of Israel who were in the kingdom of king Ahasuerus, but an administrative authority like queen Athaliah in the time of the kings and queens of Israel or Deborah in the time of the judges]
