1 So the king and Haman went to the banquet with queen Esther. 
2 It was the second day [after the queen had presented herself before the king], and the king said to Esther at the banquet of wine: What is your request, queen Esther. It will be granted to you. What do you desire. For it will be fulfilled even if it were a half of the kingdom. 
3 And queen Esther answered and said: If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it pleases the king, then my request is that my life be given to me and my desire is that the life of my people be saved. 
4 For we have been sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slaughtered and annihilated. If we had been sold to become servants and handmaids then I would have kept silent, for the situation would not have been serious enough to require disturbing the king. 
5 Then king Ahasuerus spoke and said to queen Esther: Who is the one who intends to do this. And where is he. 
6 And Esther answered, The adversary and the enemy is this wicked Haman. Then Haman was terrified before the king and the queen. 
7 And the king arose from the banquet of wine in his anger, and went into the palace garden. And Haman remained in order to save his life by begging the queen. For he saw that his destruction was determined in the king's mind. 
8 And when the king came back from the palace garden into the place of the banquet of wine, he saw Haman rushing toward the bed on which Esther was sitting and therefore he said: Will he also force the queen before me and into the house. 
9 And as soon as the word went out of the king's mouth, his personal servants came and seized Haman and covered his face. And Harbonah was one of the eunuchs who stood in the presence of the king, and Harbonah spoke and said: There is a gibbet of fifty cubits high in the house of Haman. And Haman has prepared it for Mordecai, the man who had spoken for the good of the king. 
10 And the king said, Let Haman be hanged on it. So they hanged Haman on the gibbet that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's anger was pacified.
