1 It was in the days of Ahasuerus, this Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over one hundred and twenty seven provinces. 
2 And king Ahasuerus ruled from his throne which was in the palace of the city of Shushan. 
3 In the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants. There were the captains of the army of Persia and Media, and the nobles and the princes of the provinces. 
4 And he displayed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the dazzling magnificence of his greatness for many days, for one hundred and eighty days. 
5 And when these days were finished, the king made another feast during seven days in the courtyard of the garden of the king's palace, for all the people of the city of Shushan, from the greatest to the least. 
6 A room was made with hangings of white, and of green, and of blue, fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to rings of silver and to pillars of marble. The beds to sit on were made of gold and silver, and were placed on a pavement of porphyry, and of marble, and of alabaster, and of expensive blue colored stones. 
7 Drinks were served in diverse utensils of gold, and there was an abundance of royal wine in conformity with the generosity of the king.
8 And the king had given orders to all the officers of his house in order to distribute drinks without constraints. Each person was served according to his own pleasure. 
9 And the queen Vashti was also doing a feast for the women in the royal house of king Ahasuerus. 
10 And on the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he gave orders to Mehuman, and Biztha, and Harbona, and Bigtha, and Abagtha, and Zethar, and Carcas, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of king Ahasuerus. 
11 He ordered them to bring the queen Vashti with the royal crown before the king, in order to show her beauty to the people and to the nobles. For she was beautiful to look at. 
12 But queen Vashti refused to come when she received the king’s command by the hand of the eunuchs. Therefore the king was very angry, and his anger burned in him. 
13 Then the king spoke to the wise men who had knowledge of the times. For thus was the king's manner for all matters concerning laws and judgments. 
14 In those days these wise men were Carshena, and Shethar, and Admatha, and Tarshish, and Meres, and Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes [leaders] of Persia and Media who had regular official meetings with the king and who were the highest officials in the kingdom. 
15 And the king said: What should we do to the queen Vashti according to the law. For she has not done what king Ahasuerus has commanded her by the hand of the eunuchs. 
16 And Memucan answered before the king and the princes: Queen Vashti has not done wrong against the king only, but against all the princes and all the people who are in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus. 
17 For this deed of the queen will be known to all women, and they will despise their husbands before their faces. For they will say: King Ahasuerus commanded that Vashti the queen be brought before him, but she refused to come.
18 So the princesses of Persia and Media who have heard of this deed of the queen will act in this way towards the princes of the king from today. And much contempt and anger will arise thus. 
19 Now therefore if it pleases the king, let a royal decree be published from him, and written among the laws of Persia and Media so that it may not be transgressed, with the commandment that Vashti will no more appear before king Ahasuerus. And let the king give the dignity of queen to another woman who is better than her. 
20 And when the decree of the king which will be made will be published throughout his large kingdom, all the wives will honor their husbands from the greatest to the least. 
21 This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king acted according to the word of Memucan. 
22 For the king sent [he caused to send] letters to all the provinces of the kingdom, to each province according to the writings of the official languages, and also to each people [in the provinces] according to their own language. And each letter declared in the language of the people who received it that each husband must be the chief of his own family.
