1 And on the third day Esther put on her royal apparel and stood in the inner courtyard of the king's house, in front of the king's house. And the king was sitting on the royal throne of his royal house, near the gate of the house. 
2 And when the king saw the queen Esther standing in the courtyard, she found favor in his eyes. And the king held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand, and Esther came near and touched the top of the scepter. 
3 And the king said to her: What is the matter with you, queen Esther. What is your request. It will be granted to you even if it were a half of the kingdom. 
4 Then Esther said: If it pleases the king, let the king come today with Haman to the banquet that I have prepared for him. 
5 And the king said [to his personal servants]: Bring Haman quickly, so that it may be done as Esther desires. 
6 And the king went with Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared for them. And while they were drinking wine at the banquet, the king said to Esther: Tell me what your request is, so that I may grant it to you. What do you desire. For it will be fulfilled even if it were a half of the kingdom.  
7 Then Esther answered and said: This is my request and my desire. 
8 If I have found favor in the king's sight, and if it pleases the king to grant my request and to fulfill my desire, then let the king come with Haman to the other banquet that I will prepare for them tomorrow. And it is at this event that I will tell the king the thing that I desire. 
9 And Haman was glad and excited on that day, when he went out of the first banquet. But when he saw Mordecai at the king’s gate, and saw that Mordecai neither stood up nor moved for him, then he was filled with indignation against Mordecai. 
10 Nevertheless Haman refrained from doing anything. And he went home, and sent for his friends and Zeresh his wife. 
11 Then Haman told them of the greatness of his wealth, and the multitude of his children, and all that the king had done to exalt him, and how he had been set above the princes [leaders] and servants of the king. 
12 And Haman spoke again and said: And I am the only one who has been invited to the banquet that queen Esther has made with the king today. And I am invited again with the king for another banquet tomorrow. 
13 But all this is of little value to me as long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate.
14 Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him: Command to prepare a gibbet of fifty cubits high, and in the morning you will speak to the king to have Mordecai hanged on it. And after that you will joyfully go to the banquet with the king. And the thing pleased Haman, and he caused the gibbet to be made.
