1 And the king could not sleep that night. And he commanded to take the book of the chronicles and to read it before him. 
2 Then it was found written that Mordecai had told of Bigthan and Teresh, the two king's eunuchs whp were of the keepers of the threshold and who were plotting to lay their hands on the king Ahasuerus. 
3 Then the king said, What honor and dignity has Mordecai received for this. And the king's servants answered, He has received nothing. 
4 And [in the morning] Haman came into the inner courtyard of the king's house, in order to speak to the king and to have Mordecai hanged on the gibbet that he had prepared for him. And the king said, Who is in the courtyard. 
5 And the king's servants said to him, Haman is standing in the courtyard. And the king said, Let him come in. 
6 And when Haman came in, the king said to him: What should be done to the man whom the king desires to honor. 
7 And Haman thought in his heart, Who would the king desire to honor if not me. And Haman answered the king: Here is what is to be done to a man whom the king desires to honor. 
8 Let them bring for him the royal apparel that the king usually wears, and the horse on which the king rides, and a royal crown to put it on his head. 
9 And let the apparel and the horse be given to the guardianship of one of the king's most noble princes. And this leader will put the apparel on the man whom the king desires to honor, and cause that man to ride on the horse through the main street of the city, and proclaim before him: Thus will it be done to the man whom the king desires to honor. 
10 Then the king said to Haman: Hurry up, and take the apparel and the horse as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew who sits at the king's gate. Do not neglect anything of all that you have spoken. 
11 So Haman took the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and caused him to ride on the horse through the main street of the city, and proclaimed before him: Thus will it be done to the man whom the king desires to honor. 
12 And Mordecai returned to the king's gate, and Haman hastened to his house while mourning and with his head covered. 
13 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends all that had happened to him. Then Zeresh his wife and his wise men said to him: If Mordecai before whom you have begun to fall is of the seed of the Jews, then you will not prevail against him but you will surely fall before him. 
14 And while they were still talking with him, the king's eunuchs came and hastened to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
