1 And the same day king Ahasuerus gave to queen Esther the house of Haman the adversary of the Jews [For the king had given this house of office to Haman after having exalted him]. And Mordecai came before the king, because Esther had made known to the king what was the exact nature of the family relationship between her and Mordecai. 
2 And the king took off his ring which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman [the house of office given by the king]. 
3 Then Esther spoke again before the king, and she fell at his feet weeping, and besought him to erase the wickedness of Haman the Agagite by preventing his plans against the Jews from succeeding. 
4 Then the king held out the golden scepter to Esther, and Esther got up and stood before the king. 
5 And she said: If it pleases the king, and if I have found favor in his sight, and if the thing seems right before the king, and if I please him, let it be written a decree to revoke the letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite. The letters that he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces. 
6 For how can I endure to see the evil that will come on my people, and how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred. 
7 Then the king Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew: Behold I have given the house of Haman to Esther, and he has been hanged on the gibbet because he has stretched out his hand against the Jews. 
8 And now I give you the permission to write in the name of the king whatever you want for the Jews, and seal it with the king’s ring. But know that none of the decrees that are written in the name of the king and sealed with the king's ring can be revoked. 
9 Then the king's secretaries were called at that time, in the twenty third day of the third month which is the month of Sivan. And they wrote letters according to all that Mordecai commanded. They wrote to the Jews, and to the king's officers, and to the governors and the leaders of the provinces which were from India to Ethiopia, one hundred and twenty seven provinces. They wrote to every province according to its writings, and to each of the peoples according to their language, and to the Jews according to their writing and according to their language. 
10 And the letters were written in the name of king Ahasuerus, and sealed with the king's ring. And Mordecai sent the letters by messengers who rode on the horses and mules and the dromedaries of the king's service. 
11 In these letters the king gave to the Jews the permission to gather themselves together in each of the cities where they were and defend their lives, to uproot and kill and destroy all those of each of the peoples in each province who will try to kill them, and also their children and their women, and to plunder their goods. 
12 And to do this thing in one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month which is the month of Adar. 
13 The letters also commanded that the decree be published in each province and read publicly among all the peoples for a warning, and so that the Jews might be ready to avenge themselves on their enemies on the specified day. 
14 And the messengers took the letters and rode on the horses and mules, and the dromedaries, and they departed in haste to carry out the command of king. And the decree was also published in the city of Shushan. 
15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in a blue and white royal apparel, and with a great crown of gold, and with an inner garment of fine linen and purple. And the city of Shushan rejoiced and was happy. 
16 And so the light had come for the Jews, and they felt joy and happiness and honor. 
17 And in each province and in each city, wherever the king's commandment and his decree arrived, the Jews were happy and excited, and they made a feast and a holiday. And many persons from among the peoples of the kingdom became Jews [that is to say, they embraced the religion of Moses which authorized the conversions of foreigners], because they were seized by the fear of the hidden power of the Jews.
