1 After these things, when the anger of king Ahasuerus had appeased, he remembered Vashti and what she had done, and what had been decided concerning her. 
2 And the king's servants who work for his personal well-being in his presence said: Let young and beautiful virgins be sought for the king. 
3 And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, to gather into the house of the women of the palace of Shushan all the beautiful young virgins, under the guardianship of Hegai the king's eunuch who is the keeper of the women. And let their things for purification be given to them. 
4 And the girl who will please the king will be queen instead of Vashti. And the king approved this suggestion, and he did so. 
5 Now there was in the city of Shushan a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai. He was the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a man of Benjamin. 
6 He had been carried away from Jerusalem with the group of the captives who had been taken with Jeconiah [Jehoiachin the son of Jehoiakim] king of Judah by Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. 
7 And he raised Hadassah who is Esther, his uncle's daughter, because neither her father nor her mother were alive. Mordecai had taken her to be his daughter after the death of her father and her mother. And the girl was well-shaped and beautiful. 
8 And when the king's commandment and his decree had been published, a great number of young women were gathered in the palace of Shushan under the guardianship of Hegai [and his colleagues]. And Esther who was one of them was also brought into the king's house [the house of the women of the palace of the king], in order to be under the guardianship of Hegai the keeper of the women. 
9 And the girl pleased to Hegai, and she found favor in his sight. Therefore he caused the things for her purification to be given to her quickly, with her portions, and seven young girls of the king’s house who were worthy to be given to her as servants. And he placed her and her handmaids in the best part of the house of the women. 
10 But Esther did make known neither the exact nature of the links between her and the persons whom she knew nor the fact that she was a Jewess. For Mordecai had commanded her not to speak of it. 
11 And Mordecai went daily before the courtyard of the house of the women to inquire how Esther was, and what was happening to her. 
12 Now every young woman went in turn to king Ahasuerus, after she had spent twelve months doing according to the law for the women of the king. For so were the days of their purifications accomplished. They were taking care of their bodies for six months with oil of myrrh, and for six other months with sweet odors and the perfumes used among women. 
13 And thus every of those young woman went to the king. And when she went from the house of the women to the king's house, she was given everything she wanted. 
14 Each of them went to the king's house in the evening, and in the morning she came out and went into the second house of the women which was under the guardianship of Shaashgaz. Shaashgaz was the king's eunuch who was the keeper of the concubines. And she did not go to the king again, unless he sent for her by specifying her name. 
15 Esther was the daughter of Abihail, and Abihail was the uncle of Mordecai who had taken her to be his daughter. And when her turn had come to go to the king, she asked nothing but what Hegai had designated for her. Hegai was the king's eunuch who was the keeper of the women. And Esther found favor in the sight of all those who looked at her. 
16 So Esther was brought to king Ahasuerus into his royal house in the tenth month which is the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign. 
17 And the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she found grace and favor in his sight more than all the other virgins. Therefore he set the crown of the kingdom on her head, and made her queen instead of Vashti. 
18 Then the king made a great feast to all his princes [leaders] and his servants, a feast of Esther. And he caused work to cease in the provinces of his kingdom for the period of this event, and he distributed gifts in accordance with the generosity of the king. 
19 Now when the virgins were gathered together the second time [the period of time when they went to live in the house of the concubines after meeting the king], Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate. 
20 And Esther had not made known the exact nature of the links between her and the persons whom she knew nor the fact that she was a Jewess, as Mordecai had commanded her. For Esther did according to the word of Mordecai, as when she was fed by him. 
21 And in those days when Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, there were two of the king’s eunuchs who were angry and were plotting to lay their hands on the king Ahasuerus. Their names were Bigthan and Teresh, and they were of those who kept the threshold. 
22 And when Mordecai heard of it, he told it to queen Esther. And she told it to the king and specified that this information came from Mordecai. 
23 And when the investigation was made on the case and it was found to be so, they hanged the two eunuchs on a tree and it was written in the book of the Chronicles before the king.
