1 After these things, king Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and exalted him, and set his seat above all the princes [leaders] who were with him. 
2 And all the king's servants who were at the king's gate bowed their knees and did reverence to Haman: For so was the king's commandment concerning Haman. But Mordecai neither bowed the knee nor did reverence before Haman. [In those days the exact identity of God was still unknown and each people had its own customs whose actual implementation depends on the will of each person. And king Ahasuerus had no reason to think that it was abnormal to give such a commandment concerning a man] 
3 And the king's servants who were at the king's gate said to Mordecai: Why do you transgress the king's commandment. 
4 And they repeated it to him daily, but he did not want to comply with their advice. Therefore they reported it to Haman in order to see whether Mordecai would persist in his disobedience. For he had told them that he was a Jew. 
5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai neither bowed his knee nor did reverence before him, then Haman was filled with fury. 
6 But Haman disdained to lay his hand on Mordecai alone, because they had made him know the people to whom Mordecai belonged [they informed Haman that it was one of the customs of the religion of this people]. And Haman wanted to destroy the people of Mordecai, namely all the Jews who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus. [What Haman reproached in his heart to this people did not come from a false belief that they could disobey any orders of the king or of the authorities established in the kingdom, but rather the fact that they had the possibility of not bowing in his presence as each one bowed in those days to honor everything associated with a deity of one's own religion.] 
7 And in the first month which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of king Ahasuerus, they began to cast Pur [that is to say, they did cast lots] before Haman, from day to day and from month to month, until the twelfth month which is the month of Adar. 
8 And Haman said to king Ahasuerus: There is a certain people that is scattered in all the provinces of your kingdom and yet behaved separately among the peoples. Their laws are different from those of all the other peoples, and they do not obey the king's laws. Therefore it is dangerous for the king to allow them to live in this way. 
9 If it pleases the king, let a decree be written to order the destruction of this people. And I will put ten thousand talents of silver into the king's treasury in order to finance the organization of the implementation of this decree by the official authorities. 
10 Then the king took his ring off his finger and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite. Haman was the adversary of the Jews. 
11 And the king said to Haman: You can keep your money for yourself. Punish this people as you want. [The king did not verify the exact content of the facts that the highest officer among all his servants reproached to this people whose name was not given to him. For no one is perfect.] 
12 Then the king's secretaries were called on the thirteenth day of the first month. And according to all that Haman commanded them, they wrote letters to the king's officers, and to the governors who were over every province, and to the leaders of every people. They wrote to every province according to its writings, and to each of the peoples according to their language. The letters were written in the name of king Ahasuerus and sealed with the king’s ring. 
13 And the letters were carried by messengers into all the king's provinces, and contained the order to uproot, to kill and to destroy all the Jews, both young and old, children and women, in one day on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month which is the month of Adar, and to gave their property to be plundered.
14 The letters also commanded that the decree be published in each province and read publicly among all the peoples so that the populations might be ready on the specified day.
15 And the king commanded the messengers to hurry, and the message was also published in the city of Shushan. And the king and Haman sat down to drink, while the inhabitants of the city of Shushan were perplexed.
