1 Now when Mordecai heard all that had happened, Mordecai tore his clothes. Then he put on sackcloth, and also ashes on his body, and he went out into the midst of the city while crying with a loud voice and a bitter lamentation. 
2 And came as far as to the king's gate, but he did not go further because no one could enter the king’s gate while being dressed in sackcloth. 
3 And in every province, wherever the king’s commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews. And they fasted, and wept and moaned, and many lay down on the sack and ashes. 
4 And the handmaids of Esther and her eunuchs came and told her that Mordecai had appeared before the king’s gate in sackcloth, and the queen was very frightened. Then she sent messengers with a garment to clothe Mordecai and to take his sackcloth off his body, but he refused to do so. 
5 Then Esther called Hathach, one of the eunuchs whom the king had appointed to serve her, and ordered him to go to Mordecai and find out what this meant and why it was happening. 
6 So Hathach went to Mordecai in the street of the city in front of the king's gate. 
7 And Mordecai told Hathach all that had happened to him, and how much money Haman had promised to to pay to the king's treasuries to organize the destruction of the Jews. 
8 And Mordecai also gave Hathach a copy of the content of the decree that had been published in the city of Shushan for the destruction of the Jews, in order to show it to Esther and to make known to her everything. And Mordecai commanded that Esther should go to the king to make supplications and ask for mercy for her people. 
9 And Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai. 
10 Then Esther sent Hathach to Mordecai with the following words. 
11 All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know the law against anyone entering the inner courtyard of the king without having been officially invited, whether it be a man or a woman. Such a person is necessarily punished with death within the same period unless the king holds out his golden scepter to him at the moment of the transgression. But I have not been summoned to the king for thirty days.
12 And they said to Mordecai the words of Esther.
13 And Mordecai told them to give the following answer to Esther: Do not think that being in the king’s house will allow you to be the only one of all the Jews to escape this massacre. 
14 For if you hold your peace at this time, then deliverance and comfort will arise for to the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house [of which you are the only living representative] will perish. And who knows whether it is not for such a time as this that you have become queen. 
15 And Esther sent the following answer to Mordecai. 
16 Go and gather together all the Jews who are found in the city of Shushan, and do a fasting for me. You will neither eat nor drink for three days, night and day [with the Jewish people's concept of day, this means two consecutive nights, from sunset before the first night until sunrise after the second night]. I also will do a fasting in the same way with my handmaids, and then I will go to meet the king despite the prohibition of the law to go there without being invited. And if I must perish, then I will perish. 
17 And Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.
