1 After this, the whole assembly of the children of Israel left Elim. And on the fifteenth day of the second month after they departed from the land of Egypt, they came to the wilderness of Sin which is between Elim and Sinai. 
2 And the whole assembly of the children of Israel murmured in the wilderness against Moses and Aaron. 
3 And the children of Israel said to them: Why did we not die by the hand of Yahweh in the land of Egypt, when we sat near the pots of meat and when we ate our fill of bread. For you have led us into this wilderness to kill all this multitude with famine. 
4 And Yahweh said to Moses, Behold I will rain bread from heaven for you. And the people will go out day by day to collect the necessary quantity. By this way I will test them whether they will walk in my law or not. 
5 And on the sixth day when they prepare what they have brought, it will be twice as much as what they gather daily. 
6 And Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, This evening you will know that it was Yahweh who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
7 And in the morning you will see the glory of Yahweh, because he has heard your murmuring against Yahweh. For what are we, that you have murmured against us. 
8 And Moses said, Yahweh will give you meat to eat this evening and in the morning your fill of bread, because Yahweh has heard the murmurings that you have uttered against him. Indeed what are we. Your murmurings are not against us, but against Yahweh. 
9 And Moses said to Aaron, Say to all the assembly of the children of Israel: Come near to Yahweh, for he has heard your murmurings. 
10 And while Aaron was speaking to all the assembly of the children of Israel, they turned towards the wilderness and behold, the glory of Yahweh appeared in a cloud. 
11 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
12 I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Say to them, In the evening you will eat meat and in the morning you will be satisfied with bread. And you will know that I am Yahweh your God. 
13 And in the evening, quails appeared and covered the camp. And in the morning there was a layer of dew around the camp. 
14 And when this dew had dissipated, behold there was on the surface of the wilderness something as small as grains, something as small as white frost on the ground. 
15 And the children of Israel looked at it and said to one another, What is that. For they knew not what it was. And Moses said to them, This is the bread which Yahweh gives you for food. 
16 This is what Yahweh has commanded, Let each of you gather from it what is necessary for your food according to the number of your persons, one omer per head. Each one will take some for those who are in the same tent. 
17 And the children of Israel did so. And they gathered some more, others less. 
18 And when they measured it with an omer, the one who had collected more had nothing too much and the one who had gathered less did not lack. Each person gathered what they needed for their food. 
19 And Moses said to them, Let no man keep any until the morning. 
20 But they did not obey Moses, and there were people who kept it until the morning. And worms got in and it became filthy. And Moses was angry with these people. 
21 And every morning, everyone gathered what they needed for their food. And when the heat of the sun came, it melted. 
22 And on the sixth day they gathered twice the amount of food, two omers for each person. And all the rulers of the assembly came and reported it to Moses. 
23 And Moses said to them, This is what Yahweh has commanded. Tomorrow is the day of rest, the sabbath dedicated to Yahweh. Cook what you have to cook, and boil what you have to boil, and reserve until morning whatever remains. 
24 And they keep it until morning as Moses had commanded. And it did not become foul nor did any worms get into it. 
25 And Moses said, Eat it today for it is the sabbath of Yahweh. Today you will not find any in the field. 
26 For six days you have gathered some, but on the seventh day which is the sabbath, there will be none. 
27 And on the seventh day some of the people went out to gather some, and they found none. 
28 And Yahweh said to Moses, How long will you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws. 
29 Consider that Yahweh has given you the sabbath, therefore on the sixth day he gives you the bread of two days. Let everyone stay in his place, and let no one leave his place on the seventh day. 
30 And the people rested on the seventh day. 
31 And the house of Israel called this food manna. It looked like coriander seed, and it was whiter, and tasted like a honey wafer. 
32 And Moses said, This is what Yahweh has commanded: Let an omer full of manna be kept for your descendants. And they will see the bread that I gave you to eat in the wilderness, after I brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
33 And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot and put manna in it full of one omer, and lay it before Yahweh to be kept throughout your generations. 
34 As Yahweh had commanded Moses, Aaron placed it before the Testimony [the rod of Moses and the book where the different events are progressively recorded] that it might be preserved. 
35 And the children of Israel ate manna for forty years, until their arrival in an inhabited land. They ate the manna until they came to the borders of the land of Canaan. 
36 The omer is the tenth part of an ephah.
