1 And God spoke all the following words. 
2 I am Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, of the house of servitude. 
3 You will have no other gods before me. 
4 You will not make for yourself any graven image, nor any representation of the things that are in heaven above, nor of the things below on the earth, nor of the things that are in the waters lower than the ground, to worship it. 
5 You will not bow down to them, nor serve them. For I Yahweh your God am a jealous God, who punishes the iniquity of the fathers on the children up to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. 
6 And I have mercy even on the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments. 
7 You will not take the name of Yahweh your God in vain. For Yahweh will not leave unpunished the one who take his name in vain. 
8 Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy. 
9 For six days you will labor and do all your work. 
10 But the seventh day is the sabbath of Yahweh your God. In it you will not do any work, nor you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your servant, nor your maidservant, nor your beast, nor the stranger who is within your gates. 
11 For in six days Yahweh made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that is contained in them, and he rested on the seventh day. Therefore Yahweh has blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it. 
12 Honor your father and your mother, so that your days may be long on the land that Yahweh your God gives you. 
13 You will not kill. 
14 You will not commit adultery. 
15 You will not steal. 
16 You will not bear false witness against your neighbor. 
17 You will not covet your neighbor's house, nor your neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor any thing that belongs to your neighbor. 
18 And all the people perceived the thunders and the lightnings, and the smoking mountain and the sound of the trumpet. At this sight, the people trembled and stood at a distance. 
19 And they said to Moses, Speak to us yourself and we will listen. But let not God speak to us, lest we die. 
20 And Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid. For God has come to test you, so that you may have his fear before you and so that you sin not. 
21 And the people remained at a distance, but Moses approached the darkness [dark cloud] where God was. 
22 And Yahweh said to Moses, You will speak thus to the children of Israel: You have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven. 
23 Therefore you will not make other gods to associate them with me by worshiping them. Whether they are gods of silver or gods of gold, you will not make them. 
24 You will raise up an earthen altar for me, on which you will offer your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, of your sheep and of your oxen. And wherever I remember my name, I will come to you and I will bless you. 
25 If you build me an altar of stone, you will not build it of cut stones. For by passing your tool on the stones, you will desecrate them. 
26 And you will not go to my altar by a stair, so that your nakedness may not be discovered thereon.
