1 And afterward Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Let my people go, so that they may celebrate a festival in my honor in the wilderness. 
2 And Pharaoh answered, Who is Yahweh that I should obey his voice in letting Israel go. I do not know Yahweh and I will not let Israel go. 
3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews has appeared to us. Allow us to travel three days in the wilderness and to offer sacrifices to Yahweh our God, lest he strike us with pestilence or with the sword. 
4 And the king of Egypt said to them: Moses and Aaron, why do you distract the people from their work. Go to your burdens. 
5 And Pharaoh said, Behold this people are now numerous in the land, and you make them rest from their burdens. 
6 And the same day Pharaoh gave order to the taskmasters of the people and to and their officers. 
7 And he said, You will no longer give straw to the people to make bricks as before. Let them go and collect some straw themselves. 
8 You will nevertheless impose on them the same number of bricks that they made before. You will not take anything away from it. For they are lazy therefore they cry and say, Let us go and offer sacrifices to our God. 
9 Let more difficult work be imposed on men, let them work in this way. And they will no longer pay attention to lying words. 
10 And the taskmasters of the people and their officers went out and told the people by saying, Thus says Pharaoh: I will no longer give you straw. 
11 Go and get some straw yourself where you can find it, because nothing is taken away from your work. 
12 And the people spread throughout the land of Egypt, to gather stubble instead of straw. 
13 And the taskmasters urged them by saying, Complete your daily task, as when you were given straw. 
14 And the officers of the children of Israel, established on them by Pharaoh's taskmasters, were beaten and were asked: Why did you not finish yesterday and today the same quantity of bricks as before. 
15 And the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh by saying, Why do you treat your servants like this. 
16 There is no straw given to your servants and they say to us, Make bricks. And behold, your servants are beaten and we your people are blamed. 
17 And Pharaoh answered, You are too lazy therefore you say: Let us go and offer sacrifices to Yahweh. 
18 Now go to work. No straw will be given to you and you will deliver the same quantity of bricks. 
19 And the officers of the children of Israel understood that Pharaoh wanted them to be unhappy for they were told, You will not take anything away from your bricks nor from the daily tasks. 
20 And they left Pharaoh's house and they found Moses and Aaron waiting for them. 
21 And they said to them, May Yahweh look on you judge. For you have made us odious to Pharaoh and his servants, and you have put a sword in their hands to destroy us. 
22 And Moses returned to Yahweh and said, Lord why have you harmed this people, why have you sent me.
23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people and you have not delivered your people.
