1 Bring Aaron your brother and his sons near you, and take them from among the children of Israel to consecrate them to my service in the priesthood. I mean Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron. 
2 And you will make holy garments for Aaron your brother, to mark his dignity and to serve as an adornment for him. 
3 And you will speak to all those who are skilled, to whom I have given an understanding spirit. And they will make Aaron's garments, that he may be consecrated and exercise my priesthood. 
4 These are the garments they will make: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and an embroidered tunic, and a tiara, and a belt. They will make holy garments for Aaron your brother and for his sons, so that they may exercise my priesthood. 
5 They will use gold and fabrics dyed blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and of fine linen. 
6 They will make the ephod of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen of embroidery work. 
7 Its two shoulder pieces will be connected by their two edges, that it may be joined together. 
8 And the embroidered belt will be of the same work as the ephod and fastened on it. It will be of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. 
9 And you will take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel. 
10 Six of their names on one stone, and the other six on the second stone, according to the order of birth. 
11 With the work of a stone engraver, like the engravings of a seal, you will engrave the two stones according to the names of the children of Israel. You will make them to be enclosed in settings of gold. 
12 You will place the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, in remembrance of the children of Israel. And Aaron will bear their names on his two shoulders before Yahweh for a remembrance.
13 You will make settings of gold. 
14 And two chains of pure gold, which you will braid into cords. And you will attach the chains thus braided on the settings. 
15 You will make the breastplate of judgment with an embroidery work. You will make it like the work of the ephod, you will make it of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. 
16 It will be square and double. Its length will be a span, and its width a span. 
17 You will set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones. A row of sardius, and of topaz, and of carbuncle, this will be the first row. 
18 And the second row will be an emerald, and a sapphire, and a diamond. 
19 And the third row will be a jacinth, and an agate, and an amethyst. 
20 And in the fourth row will be a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper. These stones will be set in their gold settings. 
21 And the stones will be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve according to their names. They will be engraved like the engravings of a seal, with the name of each one on his stone, they will be for the twelve tribes. 
22 You will make chains of pure gold on the breastplate, woven like cords. 
23 You will make two rings of gold on the breastplate, and you will put these two rings on the two ends of the breastplate. 
24 And you will pass the two golden cords through the two rings at the ends of the breastplate. 
25 And the other two ends of the two golden cords will be fastened on the two settings, and you will place them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it. 
26 You will also make two rings of gold, which you will put on the two other ends of the breastplate, on the inner edge applied against the ephod. 
27 And you will make two other rings of gold, which you will place at the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, on the front and near the joint, above the belt of the ephod. 
28 The breastplate will be attached by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that the breastplate is above the belt of the ephod and cannot separate from the ephod. 
29 When Aaron enters the holy place, he will bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart, for a memorial before Yahweh continually. 
30 You will add to the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim, and they will be on Aaron's heart when he goes before Yahweh. So Aaron will always bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart when he appears before Yahweh. 
31 You will make the robe of the ephod entirely of blue. 
32 In the middle there will be an opening for the head. It will be like the opening of a coat of mail. And this opening will have a woven edge all around, so that the robe will not be torn. 
33 And all around the border at the bottom, on the skirts of the robe, you will place pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, interspersed with golden bells. 
34 A golden bell and a pomegranate, and a golden bell and a pomegranate, all around the edge of the robe. 
35 And it will be on Aaron when he serves. And the sound of it will be heard when he enters the holy place before Yahweh and when he comes out, and he will not die. 
36 You will make a plate of pure gold and engrave the following words on it as one engraves a seal: Holiness to Yahweh. 
37 And you will tie it with a lace of blue and it will be on the tiara. It will be on the front of the tiara. 
38 And it will be on Aaron's forehead. And Aaron will bear the iniquity of the offerings that the children of Israel will sanctify in all their holy offerings. And it will always be on his forehead, to make them acceptable before Yahweh. 
39 You will make the embroidered tunic of fine linen. And you will make a tiara of fine linen, and you will make a belt, the work of an embroiderer. 
40 And you will make tunics for the sons of Aaron, and belts for them, and bonnets for them, to mark their dignity and to serve as an adornment. 
41 And you will put them on Aaron your brother, and on his sons with him. And you will anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, and they will be at my service in the priesthood.
42 And you will make them linen underwear to cover their nakedness. They will go from the waist to the thighs. 
43 And Aaron and his sons will carry them when they come into the tent of meeting, or when they come near the altar to serve in the holy place. So they will not be guilty, and will not die. It is a perpetual law for Aaron and for his descendants after him.
