1 When the people saw that Moses was slow to come down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron and said to him, Arise and make us gods who will go before us. For this Moses, this man who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.
2 Aaron said to them, Take off the gold rings that are in the ears of your wives, and of your sons and of your daughters, and bring them to me. 
3 And they all took off the golden rings that were in their ears, and they brought them to Aaron. 
4 And he received them from their hands, and threw the gold into a mold, and fashioned it with an engraving tool, and made a calf of it. And they said: These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
5 When Aaron saw that, he built an altar before him and he cried out: Tomorrow there will be a feast in honor of Yahweh. 
6 And the next day they rose early in the morning and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. And the people sat down to eat and drink, and then they got up to entertain themselves. 
7 And Yahweh said to Moses, Get up and go down. For your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted their way. 
8 They quickly departed from the path that I had prescribed for them. They made themselves a molten calf, and bowed down to it. And they offered it sacrifices and they said, Israel here is your god who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
9 And Yahweh said to Moses, I have seen these people and behold, it is a stiff necked people. 
10 Now therefore leave me alone, that my anger may burn against them. For I will consume them, but I will make of you a great nation. 
11 And Moses implored Yahweh his God and said, O Yahweh, why should your anger be kindled against your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt by great power and by a mighty hand. 
12 Why should the Egyptians say, He brought them out maliciously to kill them in the mountains and exterminate them from the earth. Turn away from your fiery anger and change your mind about the harm you want to do to your people. 
13 Remember Abraham and Isaac and Israel your servants, to whom you said, swearing by yourself: I will multiply your seed like the stars of the sky. And all this land that I have spoken of, I will give to your seed and they will possess it forever. 
14 And Yahweh repented of the evil that he had declared he wanted to do to his people. 
15 And Moses returned and came down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand. The tablets were written on both sides. They were written on the one side and on the other. 
16 And these tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved on the tablets. 
17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they cried, he said to Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp. 
18 And Moses answered, It is not the noise of the victors or the noise of the vanquished. What I hear is the noise of the people singing. 
19 And as Moses approached the camp, he saw the calf and the dancing. And the anger of Moses was kindled. And he threw down the tablets which were in his hands, and broke them at the foot of the mountain. 
20 And he took the calf that they had made, and burned it in the fire. And he reduced it to powder, and threw this powder on the water. And he made the children of Israel drink of it. 
21 And Moses said to Aaron: What have these people done to you, so that you have made them commit such a great sin.
22 And Aaron answered, Let not the anger of my lord be kindled. You yourself know that these people are inclined to evil. 
23 For they said to me: Make us gods who will go before us. For we do not know what has become of this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt. 
24 And I said to them: Let those who have gold strip themselves of it. And they gave it to me and I threw it into the fire, and this calf has been made of it. 
25 And Moses saw that the people were naked. For Aaron had made them naked, exposed to disgrace among their enemies. 
26 And Moses stood at the gate of the camp and said, Those who are for Yahweh, let them come to me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves to him. 
27 Then he said to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Let each of you put his sword at his side, and walk through the camp from gate to gate. And let each one kill his brother, and each one his companion, and each one his neighbor. 
28 And the children of Levi did as Moses commanded, and about three thousand people died in the same day. 
29 For Moses had said: Consecrate your hands today to Yahweh, and let each one attack his son and brother so that he may bless you today. 
30 And when the morning came, then Moses said to the people: You have committed a great sin by making this golden calf. I will now go up to Yahweh, and perhaps I will obtain the forgiveness for your sin. 
31 And Moses returned to the Yahweh and said, Oh these people have committed a great sin and made a golden god. 
32 Now forgive their sin. If not, I pray you to erase me from your book which you wrote. 
33 And Yahweh said to Moses, It is he who sins against me whom I will erase from my book. 
34 So go now and bring the people to the place that I have commanded you. Behold my angel will go before you, but in the day of my vengeance I will punish them for their sin. 
35 Thus Yahweh struck the people because they had caused Aaron to make the calf which he had made.
