1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh and say to him: Thus says Yahweh, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
2 And If you refuse to let them go, I will smite the whole extent of your country with frogs. 
3 And the river will swarm with frogs. And they will go up and they will come into your house, and into your bedroom and in your bed, and in the house of your servants and in the houses of your people, in your ovens and in your kneaders. 
4 And the frogs will climb on you, and on your people and on all your servants. 
5 And Yahweh said to Moses, Say to Aaron: Stretch out your hand with your rod over the rivers and over the streams and over the pools, and cause frogs to come up on the land of Egypt. 
6 And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt. 
7 But Pharaoh's magicians did the same with their enchantments, and they brought frogs into the land of Egypt. 
8 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, Pray to Yahweh that he may keep the frogs away from me and from my people. And I will let your people go, that they may offer sacrifices to Yahweh. 
9 And Moses said to Pharaoh: Glorify yourself on me by making the following choice. When will I pray for you and for your servants and for your people, that the frogs be destroyed from you and your houses. There will only be some left in the river. 
10 And Pharaoh said, For tomorrow. And Moses said, It will be so, so that you may know that there is no one like Yahweh our God. 
11 And the frogs will depart from you and from your houses, and from your servants and from your people. There will only be some left in the river. 
12 And Moses and Aaron went out of Pharaoh's house. And Moses cried out to Yahweh about the frogs with which he had struck Pharaoh. 
13 And Yahweh did what Moses asked, and the frogs died in the houses and in the courtyards and in the fields. 
14 And they gathered them together in heaps, and the country was infected. 
15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was relaxation, he hardened his heart and did not listen to Moses and Aaron, as Yahweh had said. 
16 And Yahweh said to Moses, Say to Aaron: Stretch out your rod and smite the dust of the earth, and it will turn into lice throughout the land of Egypt. 
17 And they did so. And Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and he smote the dust of the earth. And it was turned into lice on men and animals. All the dust of the earth was turned to lice throughout the land of Egypt. 
18 And the magicians used their enchantments to produce lice, but they could not. And lice were on men and animals. 
19 And the magicians said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaoh's heart hardened and he did not listen to Moses and Aaron, as Yahweh had said. 
20 And Yahweh said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh. Behold he will come out and approach the water and you will say to him: Thus says Yahweh, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
21 If you do not let my people go, I will send swarms of flies against you, and against your servants and against your people and against your houses. And the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies, and the ground will be covered with them. 
22 And in that day I will distinguish the land of Goshen where my people dwell, and there will be no flies there. And so you will know in the midst of this land that I Yahweh. 
23 And I will distinguish between my people and your people. This miracle will be for tomorrow. 
24 And Yahweh did so. There came great swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh and into his servants' houses. And the whole land of Egypt was devastated by flies. 
25 And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, Go and offer sacrifices to your God in this land. 
26 And Moses said, It is not proper to do so. For we will offer sacrifices to Yahweh our God, and it is an abomination to the Egyptians. If we offer sacrifices that are an abomination to the Egyptians, and that we do this before their eyes, will they not stone us. 
27 We will walk three days in the desert, and we will offer sacrifices to Yahweh our God, as he will command us. 
28 And Pharaoh said, I will let you go and offer sacrifices to Yahweh your God in the wilderness. Only you will not go very far. Pray for me. 
29 And Moses answered: Behold I will go out from your house and I will pray to Yahweh that tomorrow the flies may depart from Pharaoh and his servants and his people. But let Pharaoh no longer act deceitfully by refusing to let the people go to offer sacrifices to Yahweh. 
30 And Moses went out of Pharaoh's house and prayed to Yahweh. 
31 And Yahweh did what Moses asked, and the flies departed from Pharaoh and his servants and his people. And there remained not one. 
32 But this time again, Pharaoh hardened his heart and he did not let the people go.
