1 And God said to Moses, Come up to Yahweh, you, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel. And you will bow down from afar. 
2 And Moses alone will approach Yahweh, and the others will not come near nor the people go up with him. 
3 Then Moses came and told the people all the words of Yahweh and all the ordinances. And all the people answered with one voice, We will do everything Yahweh said. 
4 And Moses wrote all the words of Yahweh. Then he got up early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and set up twelve stones for the twelve tribes of Israel. 
5 And he sent young men of the children of Israel, who offered burnt offerings of oxen and sacrificed peace offerings to Yahweh. 
6 And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and sprinkled the other half on the altar. 
7 He took the book of the covenant, and read it in the presence of the people. And they said, We will do everything Yahweh said, and we will obey. 
8 And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant which Yahweh has made with you according to all these words. 
9 Then Moses went up with Aaron and Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel. 
10 And they saw the God of Israel. Under his feet was like a work of a sapphire stone, like the sky itself in its purity. 
11 And he did not put his hand on the nobles of the children of Israel, he did not hurt them. And they saw God, and they ate and drank. 
12 And Yahweh said to Moses, Come up to me into the mountain, and stay there. And I will give you tablets of stone with the law and the commandment that I have written for their instruction. 
13 And Moses stood up with his servant Joshua, and Moses went up to the mountain of God. 
14 And Moses said to the elders, Wait for us here until we [I and Joshua] return to you. Behold Aaron and Hur will remain with you. If anyone has a cause, he will go to them. 
15 And Moses went up into the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. 
16 And the glory of Yahweh rested on mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called Moses out of the midst of the cloud. 
17 And the appearance of the glory of Yahweh was like consuming fire on the top of the mountain, in the eyes of the children of Israel. 
18 And Moses entered the midst of the cloud, and went up to the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.
