1 Then Bezalel and Oholiab, and all the skilled men to whom Yahweh had given wisdom and understanding to know how to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary, they did according to all that Yahweh had commanded. 
2 For Moses had called Bezalel and Oholiab, and all the skilled men into whose minds Yahweh had put understanding, and all those whose hearts were willing to apply themselves to the work and to carry it out. 
3 And they received of Moses all the offerings which the children of Israel had brought to make the works of the service of the sanctuary, to make it. And every morning, voluntary offerings were still brought to Moses. 
4 Then all the skilled men were busy in all the work of the sanctuary, and each left his own work that he was doing. 
5 And they came and said to Moses: The people bring more than enough to carry out the works which Yahweh has commanded. 
6 Then Moses gave a commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp and said, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. The people were thus prevented from bringing any. 
7 For the prepared objects were sufficient and beyond, for all the work to be done. 
8 And all the skilled men among the workmen, they made for the tabernacle ten curtains of fine twisted linen, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet. Artistically crafted cherubim were depicted there by embroidery work. 
9 The length of a curtain was twenty eight cubits, and the width of a curtain was four cubits. The measurement was the same for all. 
10 And five of these curtains were joined together, and the other five were also joined together. 
11 And he made blue laces at the edge of the curtain which completed the first assembly. And he did the same at the edge of the curtain that completed the second assembly. 
12 And he put fifty laces on the first curtain, and fifty laces were placed at the edge of the curtain completing the second assembly. And these laces matched each other. 
13 And he made fifty golden clasps, and the curtains were joined together with the clasps. And the tabernacle formed one whole.   
14 And he made curtains of goat's hair to serve as a tent over the tabernacle. Eleven of these curtains were made. 
15 The length of a curtain was thirty cubits, and the width of a curtain was four cubits. The measurement was the same for all eleven curtains. 
16 And he tied five of these curtains separately, and the other six separately. 
17 And he placed fifty laces at the edge of the curtain which completed the first assembly, and he placed fifty laces at the edge of the curtain in the second assembly. 
18 He also made fifty clasps of brass to hold the tent together, so that it formed a whole. 
19 And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of sealskins above. 
20 And he made the boards for the tabernacle, of acacia wood to stand up. 
21 The length of a board was ten cubits, and the width of a board was a cubit and a half. 
22 On each board there were two tenons joined to each other. And the same was done for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
23 So he made twenty boards for the south side of the tabernacle, southward. 
24 And he made forty bases of silver under the twenty boards, two bases under each board for its two tenons. 
25 And he made twenty boards for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side. 
26 And their forty bases of silver, two bases under each board. 
27 And he made six boards for the back of the tabernacle, on the west side. 
28 And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the back. 
29 They were double from the bottom and well linked at their top by a ring. He did the same to both of them at the two corners. 
30 There were thus eight boards, with their bases of silver. Thus sixteen bases, two bases under each board. 
31 And he made bars of acacia wood, five for the boards on one side of the tabernacle. 
32 And five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards on the side of the tabernacle forming the bottom towards the west. 
33 And he made the middle bar to pass through the in the midst of the boards from one end to the other. 
34 And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to hold the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
35 And he made the veil of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. Artistically crafted cherubim were depicted there by embroidery work. 
36 And he made for it four pillars of acacia, and overlaid them with gold. They had golden hooks, and four bases of silver were cast for them. 
37 And he made for the entrance to the tent a screen of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. It was an embroidery work. 
38 And the five pillars of it with their hooks, and he overlaid their heads and their fillets with gold, and their five bases were of brass.
