1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words.
2 On the first day of the first month you will set up the tabernacle, which is also called the tent of meeting and inside which is the tabernacle. 
3 And you will place there the ark of the testimony, and you will cover the ark with the veil. 
4 And you will bring the table and arrange it in the necessary order. And you will bring the candlestick and light its lamps. 
5 And you will place the golden altar of incense before the ark of testimony, and put up the curtain at the entrance of the tabernacle. 
6 And you will place the altar of burnt offerings before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. 
7 And you will place the basin for washing between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. 
8 And you will set up the courtyard round about, and you will put the curtain at the gate of the courtyard. 
9 And you will take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle and everything in it. And you will sanctify it with all its utensils, and it will be holy. 
10 And you will anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils. And you will sanctify the altar, and the altar will be most holy. 
11 And you will anoint the basin for washing with its base, and sanctify it. 
12 And you will bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and you will wash them with water. 
13 And you will clothe Aaron with the holy garments, and you will anoint him, and sanctify him, so that he may be at my service in the priesthood. 
14 And you will bring his sons and clothe them with tunics. 
15 And you will anoint them as you anointed their father, so that they may be at my service in the priesthood. This anointing will ensure them the priesthood among their descendants in perpetuity. 
16 And Moses did all that Yahweh commanded him, he did so. 
17 And on the first day of the first month in the second year, the tabernacle was set up. 
18 And Moses set up the tabernacle, and laid its bases, and placed its boards, and put its bars, and raised its pillars. 
19 And he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above it, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
20 And he took the testimony and placed it in the ark. And he put the bars in the rings of the ark, and placed the mercy seat on top of the ark. 
21 And he brought the ark into the tabernacle. And he set up the veil of separation and covered the ark of the testimony with it, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
22 And he placed the table in the tent of meeting, on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil. 
23 And he placed the bread there in order before Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
24 And he placed the candlestick in the tent of meeting, opposite the table, on the south side of the tabernacle. 
25 And he lighted the lamps before Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
26 And he placed the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil. 
27 And he burned the fragrant incense there, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
28 And he placed the second veil at the door of the tent of meeting. 
29 And he placed the altar of burnt offerings at the entrance to the tabernacle called the tent of meeting, and he offered there the burnt offering and the meal offering, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
30 And he placed the basin for washing between the tent of meeting and the altar, and he put water there to wash with. 
31 And Moses, and Aaron and his sons, they washed their hands and their feet there. 
32 When they entered the tent of meeting or when they approached the altar, they washed as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
33 And he set up the courtyard around the tabernacle and the altar, and he put up the veil of the gate of the courtyard. So Moses finished the work. 
34 Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of Yahweh filled the tabernacle. 
35 And Moses could not enter the tent of meeting, because the cloud remained there and the glory of Yahweh was filling the tabernacle. 
36 As long as their journeys lasted, the children of Israel departed when the cloud rose from over the tabernacle. 
37 And if the cloud ascended not, then they journeyed not until the day that it ascended. 
38 For the cloud of Yahweh was over the tabernacle by day, and there was a fire in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel during all their journeys.
