1 In the third month after their departure from the land of Egypt, the same day the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sinai. 
2 They departed from Rephidim and came to the desert of Sinai, and they camped in the wilderness. And Israel camped there, opposite the mountain. 
3 And Moses went up to God, for Yahweh had called him from the mountain. And Yahweh said to Moses: You will speak the following words to the house of Jacob, you will say the following thing to the children of Israel. 
4 You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I carried you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. 
5 Now therefore if you listen to my voice and keep my covenant, then you will be my main treasure above all peoples. For all the earth is mine. 
6 And you will be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you will say to the children of Israel. 
7 And Moses came and called the elders of the people, and he presented to them all these words as Yahweh had commanded him. 
8 And all the people answered together and said, We will do all that Yahweh has commanded. And Moses reported the words of the people to Yahweh. 
9 And Yahweh said to Moses, Behold I will come to you in a thick cloud, so that the people may see when I speak to you and may always trust in you. For Moses had reported the words of the people to Yahweh. 
10 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes. 
11 And let them be ready on the third day. And on the third day Yahweh will come down in the sight of all the people, on mount Sinai. 
12 And you will set boundaries all around and say to the people, Be careful not to go up into the mountain nor touch its edge. Anyone who touches the mountain will surely die. 
13 No one will lay hands on him, but he will be stoned or pierced with arrows. Whether he is animal or man, he will not live. When the trumpet sounds long, they will approach the mountain. 
14 And Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and he sanctified the people. And they washed their clothes. 
15 And he said to the people, Be ready in three days and do not go to your wives. 
16 And on the third day in the morning there were thunders and lightning, and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of the trumpet was extremely loud. And all the people who were in the camp were terrified. 
17 And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they stood at the bottom of the mountain. 
18 And mount Sinai was all in smoke, because Yahweh descended there in the midst of fire. And this smoke rose like smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain shook violently. 
19 And when the sound of the trumpet sounded louder and louder, Moses spoke and God answered him out loud. 
20 For Yahweh came down on mount Sinai, on the top of the mountain. And Yahweh called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. 
21 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go down and make the people expressly forbidden to rush to Yahweh to look, lest many of them perish. 
22 And let the priests who come near to Yahweh sanctify themselves, lest Yahweh destroy them. 
23 And Moses said to Yahweh, The people cannot go up to mount Sinai. For you have expressly forbidden us by saying, Establish boundaries around the mountain and sanctify it. 
24 And Yahweh said to Moses: Go and get down. Then you will come back with Aaron. But let not the priests and the people rush up to Yahweh, lest he destroy them. 
25 And Moses went down to the people and told them these things.
