1 And you will make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twisted linen, and of fabrics dyed blue and purple and scarlet. And they will be worked to represent cherubim, an embroidery work. 
2 The length of each curtain will be twenty eight cubits, and the width of each curtain will be four cubits. The measurement will be the same for all the curtains. 
3 Five of these curtains will be joined together, and the other five will also be joined together. 
4 And you will make blue laces at the edge of the curtain which completed the first assembly, and you will do the same at the edge of the curtain which completed the second assembly. 
5 You will make fifty laces on the first curtain, and you will make fifty laces at the edge of the curtain which completed the second assembly. These laces will match each other. 
6 You will make fifty clasps of gold, and join the curtains together with the clasps. And the tabernacle will form one whole. 
7 You will make curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle. You will make eleven of these curtains. 
8 The length of each curtain will be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain will be four cubits. The measurement will be the same for all the eleven curtains. 
9 You will join five of these curtains separately, and the other six separately, and you will redouble the sixth curtain on the front of the tent. 
10 You will make fifty laces at the edge of the curtain which completed the first assembly, and fifty laces at the edge of the other curtain in the second assembly. 
11 And you will make fifty clasps of brass, and insert the clasps into the laces. You will thus assemble the tent, which will make a whole. 
12 As there will be excess in the tent curtains, half of the remaining curtain will hang on the back of the tabernacle. 
13 And the cubit on one side, and the cubit on the other side, of what remains in the length of the curtains of the tent, will hang on both sides of the tabernacle to cover it. 
14 And you will make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of sealskins on top. 
15 And you will make boards for the tabernacle. They will be of acacia wood, placed upright. 
16 The length of each board will be ten cubits, and the width of each board will be a cubit and a half. 
17 On each board there will be two tenons joined to each other. You will do the same for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
18 You will make twenty boards for the tabernacle on the south side southward. 
19 You will make forty bases of silver under the twenty boards, two bases under each board for its two tenons. 
20 And you will make twenty boards for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side. 
21 And their forty bases of silver, two bases under each board.
22 You will make six boards for the back of the tabernacle on the west side. 
23 You shall make two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the back. 
24 They will be double from the bottom, and well linked at their top by a ring. It will be the same for both, placed at the two corners.
25 There will thus be eight boards with their bases of silver. Thus sixteen bases, two bases under each board. 
26 You will make five bars of acacia wood for the boards of one side of the tabernacle. 
27 And five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards on the side of the tabernacle forming the bottom towards the west. 
28 And the middle bar will go through the midst of the boards from end to end. 
29 And you will cover the boards with gold, and you will make their rings of gold which will hold the bars. And you will cover the bars with gold. 
30 You will set up the tabernacle according to the model shown to you on the mountain. 
31 You will make a veil of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. And it will be worked to represent cherubim, an embroidery work. 
32 And you will place it on four pillars of acacia covered with gold. Their hooks will be of gold and they will rest on four silver bases. 
33 You will hang the veil on the hooks, and within the veil you will bring in the ark of the testimony. The veil will serve as a separation for you between the holy place and the most holy place. 
34 And you will place the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the most holy place. 
35 You will place the table outside the veil, and the candlestick in front of the table on the south side of the tabernacle. And you will set the table on the north side. 
36 And you will make a screen for the entrance to the tent. It will be of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. It will be an embroidery work. 
37 And you will make five pillars of acacia for the screen, and you will overlay them with gold. They will have golden hooks, and you will cast for them five bases of brass.
