1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Cut two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on these tablets the words that were on the first tablets which you broke. 
2 Be ready in the morning, and you will come up early to mount Sinai. And you will stand there before me, on the top of the mountain. 
3 But let no man go up with you, and let no man be seen in all the mountain, neither let the flocks or herds graze near this mountain. 
4 And Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first. And he rose early in the morning and went up to the mountain of Sinai, as Yahweh commanded him. And he took the two tablets of stone in his hand. 
5 And Yahweh came down in a cloud and stood there with Moses, and proclaimed the name of Yahweh. 
6 So Yahweh passed before Moses and cried out [to Moses]: Yahweh, Yahweh, merciful and gracious God, slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness and faithfulness. 
7 Who preserves his love to a thousand generations, and who forgives iniquity and transgression and sin, but who does not consider the guilty to be innocent. And who punishes the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on children's children up to the third and fourth generation. 
8 And Moses hastened and bowed down to the ground and to worship. 
9 And he said, O Lord I pray you, if I have found favor in your sight, let the Lord walk among us. For they are a stiff necked people. Forgive our iniquities and our sins, and take us as your possession. 
10 And he answered, Behold I make a covenant. I will do miracles in the presence of all your people that have not happened in any country or nation. And all the people around you will see the work of Yahweh and it is through you that I will accomplish terrible things. 
11 Pay attention to what I command you today. Behold I will drive out before you the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
12 Be careful not to make an alliance with the inhabitants of the country where you are to enter, lest they be a trap to you. 
13 But you will overthrow their altars, and you will break their pillars, and you will tear down their idols. 
14 You will not bow down to any other god. For Yahweh, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God. 
15 Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, lest they invite you or eat with you when they prostitute themselves to their gods and offer sacrifices to them. 
16 Lest you take their daughters for your sons, and their daughters play the whore for their gods and thus cause your sons to play the prostitute for their gods.
17 You will not make for yourself a molten god [a molten image to worship it]. 
18 You will observe the feast of unleavened bread. For seven days at the appointed time in the month of Abib, you will eat unleavened bread as I commanded you. For it was in the month of Abib that you came out of Egypt. 
19 Every firstborn male among all the males who come from a womb belongs to me, and also every firstborn male of your flocks and herds. 
20 But you will redeem the firstborn of the donkey with a lamb, and if you do not redeem it then you will break his neck. And you will redeem every firstborn of your sons, and no one will appear before me empty. 
21 Six days you will work, but on the seventh day you will rest. You will rest even in the time of plowing and harvest. 
22 You will celebrate the feast of weeks in the time of the first fruits of the wheat harvest, and the harvest festival at the end of the year. 
23 Three times a year all your males will appear before the Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel. 
24 For I will drive out the nations before you, and I will enlarge your borders. And no one will covet your land while you go up to present yourself before Yahweh your God three times in the year.  
25 You will not offer with leavened bread the blood of the victim sacrificed in my honor. And the sacrifice of the feast of the Passover will not be kept overnight until the morning. 
26 You will bring the first of the first fruits of your land to the house of Yahweh your God. You will not cook a kid in its mother's milk. 
27 And Yahweh said to Moses, Write these words. For it is according to these words that I make a covenant with you and with Israel. 
28 And Moses was there with Yahweh forty days and forty nights. He ate no bread, nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments. 
29 And Moses came down from mount Sinai. And the two tablets of the testimony were in Moses' hands when he came down from the mountain. And Moses did not know that the skin on his face shone after God spoke to him. 
30 And Aaron and all the children of Israel looked at Moses and behold, the skin of his face shone. And they were afraid to come near him. 
31 And Moses called them, and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation came to him. And Moses spoke to them. 
32 After this, all the children of Israel came and he gave them all the commandments that he had received from Yahweh on mount Sinai. 
33 And when Moses had finished speaking to them, he put a veil on his face. 
34 But whenever Moses came before Yahweh to speak to him, he removed the veil until he came out. And he went out and told the children of Israel what he had been commanded. 
35 And the children of Israel looked at the face of Moses, and saw that the skin of Moses' face shone. And Moses put the veil on his face again until he went in to speak with God.
