1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Depart and go from here, you and the people you brought out of the land of Egypt. And go to the land that I swore to give to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob by saying, I will give it to your seed. 
2 I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, and the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
3 Go to this land where milk and honey flow. But I will not come among you, lest I consume you on the way for you are a stiff necked people. 
4 When the people heard these sinister words, they were in desolation, and no one put on his ornaments. 
5 And Yahweh said to Moses, Say to the children of Israel: You are a stiff necked people. If I come among you for a single moment, I will consume you. Now take off your ornaments, and I will see what I will do to you. 
6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments, after Moses came down from mount Horeb [which is Sinai]. 
7 Moses then took an ordinary tent and pitched it outside the camp, some distance away. And he called it the tent of meeting. And all those who inquired of Yahweh went to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp. 
8 And whenever Moses went to the tent of meeting, all the people stood up. Each one stood at the entrance of his tent and looked at Moses until he had entered the tent of meeting. 
9 And whenever Moses had entered the tent of meeting, a pillar of cloud came down and stood at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Yahweh spoke with Moses. 
10 And all the people saw the pillar of cloud which stood at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and all the people stood up and bowed down, every one at the entrance of his tent. 
11 And Yahweh spoke with Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses returned to the camp. But his young servant, Joshua the son of Nun, did not leave the tent of meeting. 
12 And Moses said to Yahweh, Behold you say to me: Lead this people forward. And you do not let me know who you will send with me. However you said: I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight. 
13 Now therefore I pray you, if I found favor in your sight then show me now your ways so that I may know you, so that I may find favor in your eyes. Consider the fact that this nation is your people. 
14 And he answered, My presence will go with you and I will give you rest. 
15 And Moses said to him, If your presence do not walk with us, then do not make us leave here. 
16 How then will it be known that I and your people have found favor in your sight. Will it not be when you walk with us. And then I and your people will be distinguished before all the peoples that are on earth.
17 And Yahweh said to Moses, I will also do this thing that you asked. For you have found grace in my sight, and I know you by name. 
18 And Moses said: I pray you, show me your glory. 
19 And he answered, I will make all my goodness to pass before you, and I will proclaim the name Yahweh before you. I have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I have compassion on whom I have compassion. 
20 And he said, You will not be able to see my face, for man cannot see me and live. 
21 And Yahweh said, Behold there is a place near me, and you will stand on the rock. 
22 And while my glory passes, I will put you in a crack of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed. 
23 And when I turn my hand, you will see me from behind, but my face cannot be seen.
