1 Jethro the priest of Midian, father in law of Moses, learned everything that God had done for Moses and for Israel his people. And how Yahweh had brought Israel out of Egypt. 
2 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah the wife of Moses, who had been sent away. 
3 And he also took the two sons of Zipporah. One was called Gershom for Moses said, I live in a foreign country. 
4 And the other was called Eliezer for he said, The God of my father has helped me and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh. 
5 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with Moses' wife and his two sons into the wilderness where Moses had encamped near the mountain of God. 
6 And he said to Moses: I Jethro your father in law, I come to you with your wife and her two sons with her. 
7 And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance and kissed him. And they inquired of each other's health, and they entered Moses' tent. 
8 And Moses told his father in law all that Yahweh had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake. And also all the sufferings that had happened to them on the way, and how Yahweh had delivered them. 
9 And Jethro rejoiced in all the goodness that Yahweh showed to Israel, in that he had delivered them from the hand of the Egyptians. 
10 And Jethro said, Blessed be Yahweh who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who has also delivered the people from the hand of the Egyptians. 
11 I now know that Yahweh is greater than all gods. For the wickedness of the Egyptians has returned on them. 
12 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices to offer to God. And Aaron and all the elders of Israel came to eat with Moses' father in law in the presence of God. 
13 And the next day Moses sat to judge the people. And the people stood before him from morning until evening. 
14 Moses' father in law saw everything he did for the people and said, What are you doing there with these people. Why do you sit alone while all the people stand before you from morning until evening. 
15 And Moses answered his father in law, It is because the people come to me to consult God. 
16 When they have a matter, they come to me and I judge between them. And I make known to them the ordinances of God and his laws. 
17 And Moses' father in law said to him, What you are doing is not good. 
18 You will wear out yourself and you will wear out this people who are with you, because the thing is beyond your strength. You will not be able to do it alone. 
19 Now listen to my voice. I will give you some advice and God will be with you. Be the people's interpreter before God and bring matters before God. 
20 Teach them the ordinances and the laws, and make known to them what path they will take and what they will do. 
21 And choose capable men fearing God from among all the people, honest men who are enemies of greed. And place them over the people as ruler of a thousand, and ruler of a hundred, and ruler of fifty, and ruler of ten. 
22 And let them judge the people at all times. They will bring before you all important matters, but they will decide for themselves on small causes. Lighten your burden in this way, and let them carry it with you. 
23 It is the will of God that you do so. And then you will be able to endure, and all these people will happily reach their destination. 
24 And Moses obeyed the voice of his father in law and did all that he had said. 
25 And Moses chose able men from among all Israel and he made them rulers over the people, rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, and rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. 
26 And they judged the people at all times. And they brought difficult causes before Moses, and they themselves decided on all the small matters. 
27 And Moses let his father in law depart, and Jethro went to his country.
