1 And Moses called all the congregation of the children of Israel and said to them, These are the words which Yahweh commands you to do. 
2 You will work six days, but the seventh day will be holy to you. It is the sabbath, the day of rest dedicated to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on that day will be punished with death. 
3 You will not light a fire in any of your dwellings on the sabbath day. 
4 And Moses spoke to the whole assembly of the children of Israel and said, These are the things which Yahweh commands. 
5 Take an offering to Yahweh from what is yours. Whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring this offering to Yahweh: gold, and silver, and brass. 
6 And fabrics dyed blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goat's hair. 
7 And rams' skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood. 
8 And oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense. 
9 And onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod and the breastplate. 
10 And every wise hearted among you will come and make all that Yahweh has commanded. 
11 That is to say: the tabernacle, and its tent, and its covering, and its clasps, and its boards, and its bars, and its pillars, and its bases. 
12 And the ark and its bars, and the mercy seat, and the veil to cover the ark. 
13 And the table and its bars, and all its utensils, and the shewbread. 
14 And the candlestick for the light, and its utensils, and its lamps, and the oil for the light. 
15 And the altar of incense, and its bars, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the veil of the door at the entrance to the tabernacle. 
16 And the altar of burnt offerings with its grating of brass, and its bars and all its utensils, and the basin for washing with its base.  
17 And the curtains of the courtyard, and its pillars and their bases, and the veil of the gate of the courtyard. 
18 And pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the courtyard, and their cords. 
19 And the garments for the service in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for the functions in the priesthood. 
20 Then the whole assembly of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. 
21 And each one whose heart encouraged him, and each one whose spirit made him willing, they came and brought an offering to Yahweh for the work of the tent of meeting, and for the service there, and for the holy garments. 
22 The men came as well as the women. All those who were of good heart brought brooches, earrings, signet rings, and arm bracelets, all gold jewelry. And all those who offered an offering of gold to Yahweh. 
23 All those who had fabrics dyed blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goat's hair, and rams' skins dyed red, and sealskins, they brought them. 
24 And everyone who offered an offering of silver and brass brought the offering to Yahweh. And all those who had acacia wood for any works of the service brought it. 
25 And all the women who were wise hearted, they did spin with their hands and brought their spun works: the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen. 
26 And all the women whose hearts were moved by knowledge, they spun goat's hair. 
27 And the leaders of the people brought onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breastplate. 
28 And spices, and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense. 
29 All the children of Israel, men and women whose hearts were willing to contribute for the work which Yahweh commanded through Moses, they brought freewill offerings to Yahweh. 
30 And Moses said to the children of Israel, Behold Yahweh has chosen Bezalel the son of Uri the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. 
31 And he has filled him with an excellent spirit of wisdom and understanding and knowledge in all kinds of works. 
32 And he has made him capable of making inventions, and to work gold and silver and brass. 
33 And to engrave the stones for setting, and to work the wood, and to carry out all kinds of works of art. 
34 And he has also gave him the gift of teaching, as well as Oholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan. 
35 He has filled them with intelligence to carry out all the works of sculpture and art, and to embroider and weave fabrics dyed in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen, and to do all kinds of work and inventions.
