1 You will make an altar to burn incense. You will make it from acacia wood. 
2 Its length will be a cubit, and its width a cubit. It will be square, and its height will be two cubits. And you will make horns that will come out of the altar. 
3 And you will overlay it with pure gold: its top, and its sides, and its horns. And you will make a crown of gold around it. 
4 Under this crown you will make two rings of gold on both sides. You will put them on both sides, to receive the bars that will be used to carry it. 
5 And you will make the bars of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. 
6 And you will place the altar opposite the veil which is before the ark of the testimony, opposite the mercy seat which is over the testimony where I will meet with you. 
7 And Aaron will burn fragrant incense there. He will burn it every morning when he prepares the lamps. 
8 And he will also burn some in the evening, when he arranges the lamps. This is how incense will be burned forever before Yahweh throughout your generations. 
9 You will not offer any strange incense on this altar, nor burnt offering, nor meal offering, and you will not pour any drink offering thereon. 
10 Once every year Aaron will make reconciliation on the horns of this altar, with the blood of the sin offering in the day of reconciliation. Once every year he will make reconciliation on it throughout your generations. It is most holy before Yahweh. 
11 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
12 When you count the children of Israel according to those who are numbered among them, each of them will pay a redemption of his life to Yahweh when you count them. And so they will not be struck by any plague during this numbering. 
13 This is what all those who are included in the number will give: half a shekel of silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary which is twenty gerahs. So half a shekel of silver will be an offering to Yahweh. 
14 Every one included in the number, from the age of twenty years and upward, will pay for the offering to Yahweh. 
15 The rich will not pay more and the poor will not pay less than half a shekel of silver. It is an offering to Yahweh for the redemption of your lives. 
16 You will receive the money of the redemption from the children of Israel, and you will apply it to the work of the tent of meeting. It will be for the children of Israel a memorial before Yahweh for the redemption of their lives. 
17 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
18 You will make a basin of brass with its base of brass, for washing. You will place it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you will put water in it. 
19 And Aaron and his sons will wash their hands and feet there. 
20 When they go into the tent of meeting or when they go to the altar to make a burnt offering to Yahweh, they will wash themselves with this water lest they die. 
21 So they will wash their hands and feet so that they do not die. This will be an ordinance for Aaron and for his sons throughout their generations. 
22 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
23 Take of the best spices, of flowing myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much that is two hundred and fifty, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty. 
24 And of cassia five hundred, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin. 
25 You will make from this the oil for the holy anointing, a composition of perfumes according to the art of the perfumer. It will be the holy anointing oil. 
26 And you will anoint the tent of meeting and the ark of the testimony with it. 
27 And the table with all its utensils, and the candlestick with all its utensils, and the altar of incense. 
28 And the altar of burnt offerings with all its utensils, and the basin for washing with its base. 
29 So you will sanctify these things and they will be most holy. Everything that touches them will be holy. 
30 You will also anoint Aaron and his sons for sanctification, that they may serve me in the priesthood. 
31 And you will speak to the children of Israel by saying, It will be for me the oil of holy anointing throughout your generations. 
32 It will not be sprinkled on the body of any other man, nor will you make the likeness of it according to the same composition. It is holy and you will regard it as holy. 
33 Whoever makes a similar one or puts it on a stranger will be cut off from his people. 
34 And Yahweh said to Moses: Take spices, pure myrrh and clear gum and galbanum, these smells of pure incense. Of each will there be the same weight. 
35 With this you will make a perfume composed according to the art of the perfumer, mixed together, pure and holy. 
36 You will crush it into powder, and you will place it before the ark testimony into the tent of meeting, where I will meet with you. It will be most holy for you. 
37 You will not make a similar composition for yourself. You will consider it holy and reserved for Yahweh. 
38 Whoever makes a similar composition to smell it will be cut off from his people.
