1 And they made finely wrought garments of office for the service in the sanctuary. They made it of the fabrics dyed blue and purple and scarlet. And they made also the holy garments for Aaron, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
2 So he made the ephod of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. 
3 And they beat the gold into thin plates and cut it into threads, which they interwoven into the fabrics dyed blue, and purple, and scarlet, and into the fine linen, by a work of embroidery. 
4 And they made for it shoulder pieces, to join them together. At the two ends was it joined together. 
5 And the woven band of the ephod that was on it, was of the same piece and of like work: of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
6 And they forged two onyx stones, enclosed in settings of gold and engraved like seals are engraved, with the names of the children of Israel. 
7 And they put them on the shoulders of the ephod, as stones for a remembrance of the children of Israel, as the Yahweh commanded Moses. 
8 And he also made the breastplate by embroidery work similar to the work of the ephod: of gold, and of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. 
9 They made the breastplate double and it was square. Its length was a span, and its width was a span.
10 And they set in it four rows of stones. The order was thus: a sardius, and a topaz, and a carbuncle, in the first row. 
11 And in the second row: an emerald, and a sapphire, and a diamond. 
12 And in the third row: a jacinth, and an agate, and an amethyst. 
13 And in the fourth row: a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper. These stones were set in their gold settings. 
14 So the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve according to their names. And they were engraved like seals, each one with his name according to the twelve tribes. 
15 And they made on the breastplate chains at the ends, of pure gold woven like cords.
16 They made also two settings of gold and two rings of gold, and put the two rings at the two ends of the breastplate. 
17 And they put the two golden cords in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate. 
18 And the other two ends of the two golden cords, they fastened on the two settings and place them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod on the front of it. 
19 They also made two rings of gold, and put them on the two other ends of the breastplate, on the inner edge applied against the ephod. 
20 And they made two other rings of gold, which they placed at the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, on the front near the joint, above the belt of the ephod. 
21 And they attached the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that the breastplate was above the embroidered belt of the ephod and could not be separated from the ephod, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
22 And he made the robe of the ephod, woven entirely of blue. 
23 And the hole of the robe was in the middle of it, like the opening of a coat of mail. And this opening had a woven edge all around, so that the robe could not be torn. 
24 And they made on the skirts of the robe pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. 
25 They made bells of pure gold and put the bells between the pomegranates on the skirts of the robe, all around between the pomegranates. 
26 A bell and a pomegranate, and a bell and a pomegranate, all around on the skirts of the robe for the service, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
27 And they made tunics of fine linen of woven work for Aaron and for his sons. 
28 And the fine linen tiara, and the fine linen bonnets, and the fine twisted linen underpants. 
29 And the embroidered belt of fine twisted linen and of blue and of purple and of scarlet, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
30 And they made the plate for the holy crown of pure gold, and engraved on it as one engraves a seal, Holiness to Yahweh. 
31 And they tied it with a lace of blue, to fasten it on the tiara above as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
32 Thus were completed all the works of the tabernacle and the tent of meeting. And the children of Israel did according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, they did so. 
33 And they brought to Moses the tent of meeting and everything that belonged to it. Its clasps, and its boards, and its bars, and its pillars, and it bases. 
34 And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of sealskins, and the dividing veil. 
35 And the ark of the testimony and its bars, and the mercy seat. 
36 And the table with all its utensils, and the shewbread. 
37 And the pure candlestick and its lamps, even the lamps to be set in order, and all its utensils, and the oil for the light. 
38 And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the curtain for the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
39 And the brazen altar, and its grating of brass, and its bars and all its utensils, and the basin for washing with its base. 
40 And the curtains of the courtyard with its pillars, and its bases, and the curtain of the gate of the courtyard, and its cords, and its pins, and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle called the tent of meeting. 
41 And  the finely wrought garments of office for the sanctuary, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for the functions in the priesthood. 
42 The children of Israel did all these works by obeying all the orders that Yahweh had given to Moses. 
43 And Moses examined the whole work and behold, they had done it as Yahweh had commanded. They had done it that way. And Moses blessed them.
