1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh and say to him: Thus says Yahweh the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go that they may serve me. 
2 If you refuse to let them go and if you still hold them. 
3 Behold the hand of Yahweh will be on your cattle which are in the field, and on the horses, and on the donkeys, and on the camels, and on the herds, and on the flocks. There will be very high mortality. 
4 And Yahweh will distinguish between the flocks of Israel and the flocks of the Egyptians, and nothing that belongs to the children of Israel will perish. 
5 And Yahweh appointed a time said, Tomorrow Yahweh will do this thing in the land. 
6 And Yahweh did so the next day. All the livestock of the Egyptians perished, and not one beast perished of the flocks of the children of Israel. 
7 And Pharaoh inquired what had happened and behold, not a beast of the flocks of Israel had perished. But Pharaoh’s heart was hardened and he did not let the people go. 
8 And Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, Fill your hands with ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh. 
9 It will become dust which will cover the whole land of Egypt. And it will produce throughout the land of Egypt, on men and on animals, ulcers formed by an eruption of pustules. 
10 And they took the ashes of the furnace and stood before Pharaoh. And Moses sprinkled it toward heaven, and it produced on men and on animals ulcers formed by an eruption of pustules. 
11 And the magicians of Pharaoh could not appear before Moses because of the ulcers. For the ulcers were on the magicians, and on all the Egyptians. 
12 And Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh and Pharaoh did not listen to Moses and Aaron, as Yahweh said to Moses. 
13 And Yahweh said to Moses, Get up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh. And you will say to him: Thus says Yahweh the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go that they may serve me. 
14 For this time I will send all my plagues on your heart, and on your servants and on your people, that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth. 
15 If I had stretched out my hand and struck you with mortality, you and your people would have disappeared from the earth. 
16 But I have allowed you to remain alive, that you may see my power and let my name be published throughout all the earth. 
17 Yet you exalt yourself against my people, and do not want to let them go.
18 Behold tomorrow at this time I will cause it to rain such heavy hail, that there has been none like it in Egypt from the day it was founded until now. 
19 So protect what remains of your flocks and all that you have in the fields. For the hail will fall on all humans and animals who are in the fields and who are not gathered together in the houses, and they will perish. 
20 Those of Pharaoh's servants who feared the word of Yahweh gathered their servants and their flocks into the houses. 
21 But those who did not consider the word of Yahweh left their servants and their flocks in the field. 
22 And Yahweh said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven and let hail fall in all the land of Egypt, on man and on animal and on all the herbs of the field, throughout the land of Egypt. 
23 And Moses stretched out his rod toward heaven. And Yahweh sent thunder and hail, and fire roamed the ground. And Yahweh rained hail on the land of Egypt. 
24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail. It was so intense that there had not been anything like this in all the land of Egypt since it existed as a nation. 
25 And the hail smote throughout the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and animal. And the hail also smote all the herbs of the field, and broke down all the trees of the field. 
26 It was only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, that there was no hail. 
27 And Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron. And he said to them, This time I have sinned. Yahweh is the righteous, and I and my people are the guilty. 
28 That is enough. Pray to Yahweh that there be no more hail or mighty thunder. And I will let you go, and you will stay no more. 
29 And Moses said to him: As soon as I am out of the city I will lift up my hands to Yahweh, and the thunder will cease and there will be no more hail. And so you will know that the earth belongs to Yahweh. 
30 But I know that you and your servants will not yet fear Yahweh God. 
31 And the flax and the barley had been smote, because the barley was in ears and it was the flowering of the flax. 
32 But wheat and spelled were not affected, because they had not yet grown. 
33 And Moses left Pharaoh to go outside the city. And he lifted up his hands to Yahweh, and the thunder and the hail ceased. And the rain no longer fell on the ground. 
34 When Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he continued to sin and hardened his heart, he and his servants. 
35 And Pharaoh's heart was hardened. And he did not let the children of Israel go, as Yahweh had spoken through Moses.
