1 These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob and the families of each of them. 
2 Reuben, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah. 
3 and Issachar, and Zebulun, and Benjamin. 
4 and Dan, and Naphtali, and Gad, and Asher. 
5 All the souls that came out of the waist of Jacob were seventy souls. And Joseph was already in Egypt. 
6 And Joseph died, and all his brothers and all this generation. 
7 And the children of Israel were fruitful and multiplied. They increased in number and became more and more powerful. And the land was filled with them. 
8 Then a new king arose in Egypt, who had not known Joseph. 
9 And he said to his people, Behold the people of the children of Israel are more numerous and more powerful than us. 
10 Come on, let us show ourselves skillful towards them. Let us prevent them from increasing so that in the event of war, they will not join our enemies to fight us and thus leave the country. 
11 And they put taskmasters over them to overwhelm them with hard work. This is how they built the cities of Pithom and Raamses to serve as stores for the Pharaoh. 
12 But the more they were burdened, the more they multiplied and increased. And the children of Israel were hated. 
13 Then the Egyptians reduced the children of Israel to harsh servitude. 
14 And they made their life bitter by hard work in clay and bricks, and by all the work in the fields. And it was with cruelty that they imposed all these services on them. 
15 And the king of Egypt also spoke to the midwives of the Hebrews, one named Shiphrah and the other Puah. 
16 And he said to them, When you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrews women and see them on the birth stool, if it is a boy then put him to death and if it is a girl then let her live. 
17 But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them. So they let the children live. 
18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them: Why have you done this. Why have you saved the lives of the children. 
19 And the midwives answered Pharaoh, This is because the Hebrews women are not like the Egyptian women. For they are vigorous and they give birth before the midwife arrives. 
20 And God did good to the midwives, and the people multiplied and became very numerous. 
21 And because the midwives had the fear of God, he made their house prosperous. 
22 Then Pharaoh ordered all his people and said, You will throw into the river every boy who is born and let all the girls live.
