1 You will make the altar of acacia wood. Its length will be five cubits and its width five cubits. The altar will be square, and its height will be three cubits. 
2 And you will make horns on the four corners that will come out of the altar. And you will cover it with brass. 
3 And you will make its pots to take away its ashes, and its brooms, and its basins, and its hooks for flesh, and its firepans. You will make all its utensils of brass. 
4 You will make a grid of brass for the altar, in the form of a lattice, and you will make four rings of brass at the four corners of the lattice. 
5 You will place it under the edge of the altar, from the bottom to half the height of the altar. 
6 You will make bars for the altar, I say bars of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass. 
7 The bars will pass through the rings, and these bars will be on both sides of the altar when it is carried. 
8 You will make the altar hollow between the boards. They will do it as it is shown to you on the mountain. 
9 You will make the courtyard of the tabernacle on the south side. The courtyard will have on one side curtains of fine twisted linen, for a length of a hundred cubits. 
10 It will have twenty pillars, with their twenty bases of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets will be of silver. 
11 Likewise, on the north side there will be curtains for a length of a hundred cubits, with twenty pillars and their twenty bases of brass. The hooks of the pillars and the fillets will be of silver. 
12 On the west side there will be fifty cubits of curtains for the width of the courtyard, with ten pillars and their ten bases. 
13 And the width of the courtyard on the east side will be fifty cubits. 
14 There will also be curtains of fifteen cubits on one side of the gate, with their three pillars and their three bases. 
15 Likewise, on the other side of the gate there will be curtains of fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three bases. 
16 And for the gate of the courtyard there will be a curtain of twenty cubits of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen, an embroidery work. Also four pillars and their four bases. 
17 All the pillars forming the enclosure of the courtyard will have silver fillets, with their hooks of silver and their bases of brass. 
18 The length of the courtyard will be a hundred cubits, and its width fifty cubits on each side, and its height five cubits. And the curtains of fine twisted linen, and their bases of brass. 
19 All utensils intended for the service of the tabernacle, and all the pins, and all the pins of the courtyard, all will be of brass. 
20 You will command the children of Israel to bring you pure olive oil beaten for the light, in order to maintain the lamps continuously. 
21 In the tent of meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons will prepare it so that the lamps will burn from evening until morning in the presence of Yahweh. It is a statute for ever throughout their generations, to be observed by the children of Israel.
