1 If a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it, then he will pay five oxen for the ox and four sheep for the sheep. 
2 And if the thief is caught stealing and if he is struck and dies, then no one will be guilty of murder against him. 
3 But if time has passed since the stealing and for example another day has arrived, then one will be guilty of murder towards him. For he will make full restitution and if he has nothing, then he will be sold for his theft. 
4 If what he stole is still alive in his hands, whether it is an ox or a sheep or a donkey, then he will restore the double. 
5 If a man damages a field or a vineyard by allowing his flock to graze in the fields of others, then he will give in compensation the best produce of his field and his vineyard. 
6 If a fire breaks out and encounters thorns and sheafed grains or standing grains, or if the field is consumed, then the person who caused the fire will be responsible for compensation. 
7 If a man gives to another some money or things to keep, and if they are stolen from the house of the latter, then the thief will pay the double in case he is found. 
8 If the thief is not found, then the master of the house will appear before God, by appearing before the judges to declare that he has not laid hands on his neighbor's property. 
9 In any fraudulent affair concerning an ox or a sheep or a donkey or a garment or a lost object, concerning which any one makes a formal declaration, the cause of both parties will go to God by being presented before the judges. And whoever God condemns by the judges will pay the double to his neighbor. 
10 If a man gives another a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any other animal to keep, and the animal dies or is injured or is kidnapped without anyone seeing it. 
11 Then an oath of Yahweh will take place between the two parties, and the one who kept the animal will declare that he did not put his hand on the property of his neighbor, and the owner of the animal will accept this oath and will not ask for any compensation. 
12 But if the animal was stolen while it was physically with him, then he will be liable to the owner and will have to pay compensation. 
13 If the animal has been torn, then he will bring it as a testimony, and he will not be required to make restitution for what was torn. 
14 If a man borrows an animal from another, and the animal is injured or dies in the absence of the owner, there will be compensation. 
15 If the owner was present, there will not be compensation. If the animal has been rented, the rental price will be sufficient. 
16 If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and copulates with her, he will pay a dowry for her and take her as his wife. 
17 And if the father refuses to grant her to him, then he will pay in money the value of the virgins' dowry. 
18 You will not let the sorcerer or the sorceress live, the one who practices strange and inexplicable rituals to achieve goals, rituals that I have not ordered because mine also are not yet understandable by you. 
19 Anyone who has sex with an animal will be punished with death. 
20 Whoever offers sacrifices to any god other than Yahweh, the same will be punished with death. 
21 You will not harm a stranger or oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
22 You will not afflict the widow or the orphan. 
23 If you afflict them and they come to me, I will surely hear their cries. 
24 And my anger will be kindled, and I will destroy you with the sword. And your wives will become widows, and your children orphans. 
25 If you lend money to any of my people who is with you and who is poor, you will not be like a creditor to him and you will not demand any interest from him. 
26 If you take your neighbor's clothing as pledge, you will return it to him before the sunset. 
27 For it is his only covering, it is the garment with which he wraps his body. In what would he sleep. Therefore when he cries to me, I will hear him for I am merciful. 
28 You will not curse God by reproaching the judges [when they have examined a case by consulting all the actors concerned and have given their decision], and you will not curse the rulers of your people. 
29 You will not delay offering me part of the abundance of your harvest and your vintage. And you will give me the firstborn of your sons. 
30 You will also give me the firstborn of your cow and your sheep. It will stay with its mother for seven days, and on the eighth day you will give it to me. 
31 You will be an holy people to me. You will not eat flesh torn in the fields, you will throw it to the dogs.
