1 The whole assembly of the children of Israel departed from the wilderness of Sin, according to the steps which Yahweh commanded them. And they camped in Rephidim where the people found no water to drink. 
2 Then the people quarreled with Moses by saying, Give us water to drink. And Moses answered them, Why are you quarreling with me and why do you tempt Yahweh. 
3 And the people were there, thirsty and murmuring against Moses. And they said, Why have you brought us out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our flocks with thirst. 
4 And Moses cried to Yahweh by saying, What will I do to this people. A little more and they will stone me. 
5 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go ahead of the people and take with you some of the elders of Israel. Take also in your hand your rod with which you struck the river, and walk. 
6 Behold I will stand before you on the rock of Horeb. You will strike the rock and water will come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. 
7 And he called the name of this place Massah and Meribah, because the children of Israel had disputed and because they tempted Yahweh by saying, Is Yahweh among us or not. 
8 And Amalek came to fight against Israel in Rephidim. 
9 Then Moses said to Joshua, Choose men from among us and go and fight Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. 
10 Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek. And Moses and Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill. 
11 And when Moses lifted up his hand, Israel was stronger. And when he lowered his hand, Amalek was stronger. 
12 And Moses' hands being tired, they took a stone and placed it under him, and he sat on it. And Aaron and Hur supported his hands, one on one side and the other on the other. And his hands remained firm until the going down of the sun. 
13 And Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. 
14 And Yahweh said to Moses, Write this in the book, so that the memory of it may be preserved. And declare to Joshua that I will blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. 
15 And Moses built an altar and called it Yahweh my standard. 
16 And he said, Yahweh has sworn: Yahweh will make war against Amalek from generation to generation.
