1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words.
2 Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering. You will receive it for me from any man who will do it with a good heart. 
3 And this is what you will receive from them as an offering: gold, and silver, and brass. 
4 And fabrics dyed in blue and in purple and in scarlet, and fine linen and goat's hair. 
5 And rams' skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood. 
6 And oil for the candlestick, and spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense. 
7 And onyx stones, and other stones for the decoration of the ephod and the breastplate. 
8 And they will make me a sanctuary, and I will dwell among them. 
9 You will make the tabernacle and all its utensils according to the model that I will show you. 
10 They will make an ark of acacia wood, its length two and a half cubits, and its width a cubit and a half, and its height a cubit and a half. 
11 And you will overlay it with pure gold, covering it inside and out, and making on it a crown of gold all around. 
12 And you will cast four rings of gold for it, and put them on its four corners, two rings on one side and two rings on the other side. 
13 You will make acacia wood bars, and you will cover them with gold. 
14 And you will pass the bars through the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark with them. 
15 The bars will remain in the rings of the ark, and will not be removed. 
16 And what you will put in the ark is the testimony that I will give you.
17 And you will make a mercy seat of pure gold. Its length will be two and a half cubits, and its width a cubit and a half. 
18 You will make two cherubim of gold, and make them of beaten gold, and place them at the two ends of the mercy seat. 
19 Make a cherub at one end and a cherub at the other end. You will make the cherubim coming out of the mercy seat at its two ends, they must form a single piece with the mercy seat. 
20 And the cherubim will spread their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings and facing each other. And the cherubim will have their faces toward the mercy seat. 
21 And you will put the mercy seat on the ark, and in the ark there will be the testimony that I will give you. 
22 This is where I will meet you. From the top of the mercy seat, between the two cherubim placed on the ark of the testimony, I will give you all my orders for the children of Israel. 
23 You will make a table of acacia wood. Its length will be two cubits, and its width a cubit, and its height a cubit and a half. 
24 You will overlay it with pure gold, and make a crown of gold all around. 
25 You will make a border of four fingers around it, on which you will place a crown of gold all around. 
26 And you will make four rings of gold for the table, and you will put the rings in the four corners that are at its four feet. 
27 The rings will be near the edge, and will receive the bars to carry the table. 
28 You will make the bars of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. And they will be used to carry the table. 
29 You will make its dishes, and its bowls, and its chalices, and its cups, and they will serve for libations. You will make them of pure gold. 
30 You will set the shewbread on the table continually before me. 
31 You will make a candlestick of pure gold. This candlestick will be made of beaten gold. And its foot, and its stem, and its calyxes, and its knops, and its flowers, all will be of the same piece. 
32 Six branches will come out from its sides. Three branches of the candlestick out of the one side of it, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side of it. 
33 There will be on one branch three almond shaped chalices with a knop and a flower, and on another branch three almond shaped chalices with a knop and a flower. It will be the same for the six branches coming out of the candlestick. 
34 At the stem of the candlestick, there will be four almond shaped chalices with their knops and flowers. 
35 There will be a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two other branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two other branches of one piece with it. It will be the same for the six branches coming out of the candlestick. 
36 The knops and the branches of the candlestick will be of one piece. And all this will be entirely of beaten gold, pure gold. 
37 You will make its seven lamps, which will be placed on it so as to give light towards the front of the candlestick. 
38 Its snuffers and its snuffdishes will be pure of gold.
39 A talent of pure gold will be used to make the candlestick with all its utensils. 
40 Look, and do according to the pattern shown to you on the mountain.
