1 And Yahweh said to Moses: See, I have made you God for Pharaoh and Aaron your brother will be your prophet. 
2 You will say whatever I command you and Aaron your brother will speak to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land. 
3 And I will harden the heart of Pharaoh, and I will multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt. 
4 But Pharaoh will not listen to you so that I may lay my hand on Egypt. And I will bring my armies, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt with great judgments. 
5 And the Egyptians will know that I am Yahweh, when I stretch out my hand over Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them. 
6 And Moses and Aaron did as Yahweh commanded them, they did so. 
7 Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. 
8 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron. 
9 And he said: When Pharaoh will speak to you and says to you, Do a miracle. Then you will say to Aaron, Take your rod and throw it before Pharaoh. And it will become a serpent. 
10 And Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did as Yahweh had commanded. Aaron threw down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent. 
11 But Pharaoh called wise men and sorcerers, and the magicians of Egypt did the same with their enchantments. 
12 They each threw down his rod which became serpents, but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods. 
13 And Pharaoh's heart was hardened and he did not listen to Moses and Aaron, as Yahweh had said. 
14 And Yahweh said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is stubborn, he refuses to let the people go. 
15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning. Behold he will come out and approach the water, and you will stand by the river to meet him. And you will take in your hand the rod that has been turned into a serpent. 
16 And you will say to Pharaoh, Yahweh the God of the Hebrews has sent me to say to you: Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness. And behold, until now you have not listened. 
17 Thus says Yahweh, By this you will know that I am Yahweh: Behold I will strike the waters of the river with the rod that is in my hand, and they will be turned into blood. 
18 And the fish in the river will perish and the river will become corrupted, and the Egyptians will strive in vain to drink the water of the river. 
19 And Yahweh said to Moses, Say to Aaron: Take your rod and stretch out your hand over the waters of the Egypt, over its rivers and over its streams and over its pools, and over all its waters. And they will become blood. And there will be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone. 
20 And Moses and Aaron did as Yahweh commanded. And Aaron lifted up the rod and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants. And all the waters of the river were turned into blood. 
21 And the fish that were in the river died, and the river became corrupt. And the Egyptians could no longer drink the water of the river, and there was blood throughout the land of Egypt. 
22 But the magicians of Egypt did the same with their enchantments, and Pharaoh's heart was hardened. And he did not listen to Moses and Aaron, as Yahweh had said. 
23 And Pharaoh returned home, and he did not even take these things to heart. 
24 And all the Egyptians dug around the river to find water to drink, for they could not drink water from the river. 
25 And seven days passed after Yahweh had smitten the river.
