1 A man of the house of Levi took a daughter of Levi to wife. 
2 And the woman became pregnant and bore a son. And she saw that he was handsome, and she hid him for three months. 
3 And when she could no longer hide him, she took an ark made of reeds which she coated with bitumen and pitch, and she put the child in it and placed it among the bulrushes by the river. 
4 And the child's sister stood at a distance to find out what would happen to him. 
5 And the daughter of Pharaoh went down to the river to bathe, and her maids walked by the river. And she saw the box among the bulrushes, and she sent her maid to take it. 
6 And she opened it and saw the child. And behold, the baby was crying. And she had pity on him and said, He is a child of the Hebrews. 
7 Then the child's sister said to Pharaoh's daughter: Do you want me to go and find you a nurse among the women of the Hebrews, to breastfeed this child. 
8 And Pharaoh's daughter replied, Go. And the maid went to get the child's mother. 
9 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child and nurse him for me, and I will give you your salary. And the woman took the child and nursed him. 
10 And when Moses had grown sufficiently, she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter and he was like a son to her. And Pharaoh's daughter called his name Moses, for she said: I took him out of the waters. 
11 And when Moses had grown up, he went to his brothers and witnessed their hard labors. And he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew among his brothers. 
12 And he looked from side to side, and seeing that there was no one there, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. 
13 And he went out the next day and behold, two Hebrews were quarreling. And he said to him who was in the wrong, Why do you strike your neighbor. 
14 And this man answered, Who made you ruler and judge over us. Are you thinking of killing me like you killed the Egyptian. And Moses was afraid and said, Surely the thing is known. 
15 Pharaoh heard what had happened and sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh and went to the land of Midian. And there he stopped near a well. 
16 The priest of Midian had seven daughters. And they came to draw water, and they filled the troughs to water their father's flock. 
17 And the shepherds came and chased them away. Then Moses stood up and defended them, and watered their flock. 
18 And they returned to Reuel their father and he said, Why are you coming back so early today. 
19 They answered, An Egyptian delivered us from the hand of the shepherds, and he even drew water for us and made the flock drink. 
20 And he said to his daughters, Where is he and why did you leave this man. Call him to have some food. 
21 And Moses agreed to stay with Reuel, and Reuel gave his daughter Zipporah to wife to Moses. 
22 And she bore a son whom he named Gershom for he said, I live in a foreign country. 
23 And time passed and the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel were still groaning under the bondage and crying out. And these cries which were caused by bondage went up to God.
24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. 
25 And God looked at the children of Israel, and God had compassion on them.
