1 Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to Yahweh by saying, I will sing to Yahweh for he has triumphed gloriously. He threw the horse and its rider into the sea. 
2 Yahweh is my strength and the subject of my praise. He became my savior. He is my God and I will prepare for him a tabernacle [a dwelling]. He is the God of my father and I will exalt him. 
3 Yahweh is a mighty warrior, Yahweh is his name. 
4 He threw Pharaoh's chariots and his army into the sea, Pharaoh's elite fighters were swallowed up in the red sea. 
5 The depths covered them, they sank into the depths like a stone. 
6 Your right hand O Yahweh, is glorious in power. Your right hand O Yahweh, crushed the enemy. 
7 By the greatness of your majesty you have overthrow your adversaries. You unleash your anger and it consumes them like dry grass [that is devoured by fire]. 
8 At the breath of your nostrils the waters gathered. The floods stood upright like a wall, and the depths were frozen in the heart of the sea. 
9 The enemy said, I will pursue and I will overtake and I will divide the spoil, my lust will be satisfied and I will draw the sword, my hand will destroy them. 
10 You blew with your breath and the sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters. 
11 Who among the gods is like you O Yahweh. Who is like you magnificent in holiness, worthy of praise and working wonders. 
12 You stretched out your right hand and the earth swallowed them up. 
13 By your mercy you will lead these people whom you have delivered. By your power you will direct them to the abode of your holiness. 
14 The people will hear it and be afraid, terror will seize the Philistines. 
15 The princes of Edom will be astonished, and trembling will seize the warriors of Moab. All the inhabitants of Canaan will be discouraged. 
16 Fear and fright will surprise them. By the greatness of your arm they will become silent as a stone. Until your people pass, O Yahweh, until the people you have acquired pass. 
17 You will bring them and settle them in the mountain of your inheritance, in the place that you have prepared for your dwelling O Yahweh. To the sanctuary that your hands have founded O Yahweh. 
18 Yahweh will reign forever and ever. 
19 For Pharaoh's horses and his chariots and his horsemen entered the sea, and Yahweh brought the waters of the sea on them. But the children of Israel walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea. 
20 And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand. And all the women came after her with tambourines and dances. 
21 And Miriam answered the children of Israel: Sing to Yahweh for he has revealed his glory. He threw the horse and its rider into the sea. 
22 And Moses led Israel away from the red sea, and they went into the wilderness of Shur. And they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. 
23 And they came to Marah, but they could not drink the water of Marah because it was bitter. Therefore the name of the place was called Marah. 
24 And the people murmured against Moses by saying, What will we drink. 
25 And Moses cried to Yahweh. And Yahweh showed him a wood which he threw into the water, and the water became sweet. And Yahweh gave the people a law and an ordinance there, and he tested them there. 
26 Yahweh said: If you listen attentively to the voice of Yahweh your God and if you do what is right in his sight, if you give ear to his commandments and if you observe all his ordinances, then I will not strike you with any of the diseases with which I struck the Egyptians. For I am Yahweh who heals you. 
27 And they came to Elim where were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees. And they camped there near the waters.
