1 You will not spread false rumor nor receive a false report. And you will not join hands with the wicked to be an unjust witness. 
2 You will not follow the multitude to do evil. And you will not agree in a trial by siding with the many to violate justice. 
3 You will not favor the poor in his cause. 
4 If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you will bring it back to him. 
5 If you see your enemy's donkey succumbing under its load, and you hesitate to unload it, then you will help him unload it. 
6 You will not infringe on the rights of the poor in his cause. 
7 You will not pronounce an unjust sentence, and you will not put to death the innocent and the righteous. For I will not absolve the guilty. 
8 You will not receive a gift. For gifts blind the wise and pervert the words of the righteous. 
9 You will not oppress the stranger. For you know what the stranger feels, since you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
10 For six years you will sow the land, and you will reap the produce. 
11 But on the seventh you will let it rest lie fallow. And the poor of your people will enjoy it, and the beasts of the field will eat what is left. You will do the same for your vineyard and for your olive trees. 
12 For six days you will do your work. But on the seventh day you will rest, and your ox and your donkey will have rest, and the son of your slave and the stranger may be refreshed. 
13 And you will observe everything that I have told you. And you will make no mention of the name of other gods, nor let no one hear it coming out of your mouth. 
14 Three times a year you will celebrate festivals in my honor. 
15 You will observe the feast of unleavened bread for seven days at the appointed time in the month Abib. You will eat unleavened bread as I commanded you, for in this month you came out of Egypt. And no one will appear before me empty. 
16 And you will observe the feast of the harvest of the first fruits of your labor, of what you sow in the fields. And the feast of ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather from the fields the fruit of your labor. 
17 These three times a year all the males will appear before the Lord Yahweh. 
18 You will not offer the blood of the victim sacrificed in my honor with leavened bread, nor will the fat of my sacrifice be kept until the morning. 
19 You will bring into the house of Yahweh your God, the first of the first fruits of your ground. You will not cook a kid in its mother's milk. 
20 Behold I will send an angel before you, to protect you on the way and to lead you to the place that I have prepared. 
21 Be on your guard in his presence, and listen to his voice. Do not resist him, because he will not forgive your transgression, for my name is in him. 
22 But if you listen to his voice and do all that I say to you, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and will afflict those who afflict you. 
23 For my angel will go before you and lead you to the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And I will destroy them. 
24 You will not bow down to their gods or serve them. You will not imitate these people in their conduct, but you will completely overthrow their false gods and break their pillars. 
25 You will serve Yahweh your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will remove the sickness from among you. 
26 There will be neither abortionists nor barren women in your country. And I will fill the number of your days. 
27 I will send my terror before you, and I will rout all the peoples among whom you go. And I will make all your enemies turn their backs before you. 
28 I will send the hornets before you, which will drive out the Hivites and the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you. 
29 I will not drive them out of your sight in one year, lest the land become a wilderness and the beasts of the field multiply against you. 
30 Little by little I will drive them away from you, until you become more numerous and can take possession of the land. 
31 And I will establish your boundaries from the red sea to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the river. For I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you will drive them out before you. 
32 You will not make an alliance with them, nor with their gods. 
33 They will not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against me. For if you serve their gods, it will surely be your destruction.
