1 And Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood. Its length was two and a half cubits, and its width a cubit and a half, and its height a cubit and a half. 
2 And he covered it with pure gold inside and out, and he made a crown of gold all around. 
3 And he cast four golden rings for it, which he put on its four corners. Two rings on one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it. 
4 And he made bars of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
5 And he put the bars through the rings on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark. 
6 And he made the mercy seat of pure gold. Its length was two and a half cubits, and its width was a cubit and a half. 
7 And he made two cherubim of gold. He made them of beaten gold, at the two ends of the mercy seat. 
8 One cherub at the one end, and another cherub at the other end. He made the cherubim coming out of the mercy seat at its two ends. 
9 And the cherubim spread their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings and facing each other. And the cherubim had their faces toward the mercy seat. 
10 And he made the table of acacia wood. Its length was two cubits, and its width a cubit, and its height a cubit and a half. 
11 And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made a crown of gold all around. 
12 He made around it a border the width of a hand, on which he placed a crown of gold all around. 
13 And he cast four gold rings for the table, and put the rings in the four corners that were at its four feet. 
14 The rings were near the edge, and received the bars to carry the table. 
15 And he made the bars of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold. And they were used to carry the table. 
16 And he made the utensils that were to be placed on the table. Its dishes, and its bowls, and its chalices, and its cups, to serve for libations. He made them of pure gold. 
17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold. This candlestick was made of beaten gold. And its foot, and its stem, and its calyxes, and its knops, and its flowers, all were of the same piece. 
18 And six branches came out from its sides. Three branches of the candlestick out of the one side of it, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side of it. 
19 There were three almond shaped chalices on one branch with a knop and a flower, and on another branch three almond shaped chalices with a knop and flower. It was the same for the six branches coming out of the candlestick. 
20 At the stem of the candlestick there were four almond shaped chalices with their knops and flowers. 
21 There was a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two other branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two other branches of one piece with it. It was the same for the six branches coming out of the candlestick.
22 The knops and the branches of the candlestick were of the same piece. It was entirely of beaten gold, pure gold. 
23 And he made for it seven lamps with its snuffers and its snuffdishes of pure gold. 
24 He used a talent of pure gold to make the candlestick with all its utensils. 
25 And he made the incense altar of acacia wood. Its length was a cubit, and its width was a cubit. It was square, and its height was two cubits. And horns were coming out of the altar. 
26 And he overlaid it with pure gold, the top and the sides all around and the horns. And he made a crown of gold around it. 
27 Under the crown he made two rings of gold on both sides. He put them on both sides to receive the bars that were used to carry it. 
28 And he made bars of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
29 And he made the oil for the holy anointing, and the pure fragrant incense, composed according to the art of the perfumer.
