1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Behold that I have chosen Bezalel the son of Uri the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. 
3 And I filled him with a spirit of God, a spirit of wisdom and understanding and knowledge for all kinds of work. 
4 I made him capable of making inventions and working with gold and silver and brass. 
5 And also in cutting stones for setting and carving wood, and to perform all kinds of work. 
6 And behold, I have joined to him Oholiab the son of Ahisamah of the tribe of Dan. And I have put understanding in the minds of all those who are skillful, that they may do all that I have commanded you. 
7 That is the tent of meeting, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercy seat that will be on it, and all the utensils of the tent. 
8 And the table with its utensils, and the candlestick of pure gold with all its utensils, and the altar of incense. 
9 And the altar of burnt offerings with all its utensils, and the basin for washing with its base. 
10 And garments of office, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for the functions of the priesthood. 
11 And anointing oil and fragrant incense for the sanctuary. They will do everything that I have commanded you. 
12 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
13 Speak to the children of Israel and say, You will not fail to observe my sabbaths. For it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you. 
14 You will observe the sabbath, for it is holy to you. Whoever profanes it will be punished with death, whoever does any work on that day will be cut off from among his people. 
15 You will work six days, but the seventh day is the sabbath of the holy rest to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the sabbath will be put to death. 
16 The children of Israel will keep the sabbath, that they may observe the rest throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. 
17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel that will last forever. For in six days the Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he ceased from his work and rested. 
18 When he had finished speaking to Moses on mount Sinai, he gave him two tablets of testimony, tablets of stone written with the finger of God.
