1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh. For a strong hand will force him to let them go, a powerful hand will force him to drive them out of his land. 
2 And God spoke again to Moses and said to him, I am Yahweh. 
3 I appeared to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob by the name of Almighty God, but I was not known to them by my name Yahweh. 
4 And I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimages in which they were strangers. 
5 And I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians hold in bondage. And I have remembered my covenant. 
6 Therefore you will say to the children of Israel: I am Yahweh. I will bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will save you by an outstretched arm and with great judgments. 
7 And I will take you for my people, and I will be your God. And you will know that I am Yahweh your God who bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians. 
8 And I will bring you into the land that I swore to give to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob. And I will give it to you as a possession, I Yahweh. 
9 Thus spoke Moses to the children of Israel. But anguish of soul and cruel servitude prevented them from listening to Moses. 
10 And Yahweh spoke to Moses. 
11 And he said: Go and speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he lets the children of Israel go out of his land. 
12 And Moses answered before Yahweh by saying: Behold the children of Israel have not listened to me. How then will Pharaoh listen to me, since my lips are uncircumcised. 
13 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them orders to go to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
14 These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. These are the families of Reuben. 
15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman. These are the families of Simeon. 
16 These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their families: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. And the years of Levi's life were one hundred and thirty seven years. 
17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, and their families. 
18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. The years of Kohath's life were one hundred and thirty three years. 
19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. 
20 And Amram took his aunt Jochebed to wife, his father's sister. And she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of Amram's life were one hundred and thirty seven years. 
21 The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
22 The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
23 And Aaron took Elisheba to wife, the daughter of Amminadab the sister of Nahshon. And she bore him Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
24 The sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the families of the Korahites. 
25 And Eleazar the son of Aaron took one of the daughters of Putiel to wife. And she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites according to their families. 
26 These are Aaron and Moses to whom Yahweh said, Bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt according to their armies. 
27 These are Aaron and Moses who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of Egypt. It is this Moses and this Aaron. 
28 Concerning the time when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt. 
29 When Yahweh, I say, had spoken to Moses by saying: I am Yahweh, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say to you. 
30 Then Moses had said before Yahweh: Behold I have uncircumcised lips, how will Pharaoh listen to me.
