1 This is what you will do to consecrate them, so that they may be at my service in the priesthood. Take a young bullock and two rams without blemish. 
2 And make unleavened bread, and unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers drizzled with oil. You will make them with fine wheat flour. 
3 And you will put them in a basket, and bring them in the basket with the bullock and the two rams. 
4 And you will bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting, and wash them with water. 
5 And you will take the garments, and clothe Aaron with the tunic, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and you will put the embroidered belt of the ephod on him. 
6 And you will place the tiara on his head, and you will place the crown of holiness on the tiara. 
7 And you will take the anointing oil and sprinkle it on his head, and anoint him. 
8 And you will bring his sons and clothe them with tunics. 
9 And you will gird Aaron and his sons with belts, and put bonnets on them. And the priesthood will belong to them by perpetual law. You will thus consecrate Aaron and his sons. 
10 And you will bring the bullock before the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons will put their hands on the head of the bullock. 
11 And you will kill the bullock before Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting. 
12 And you will take some of the bullock's blood and put it with your finger on the horns of the altar, and you will sprinkle all the blood at the base of the altar. 
13 And you will take all the fat that covers the bowels, and the large lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat that surrounds them, and you will burn them on the altar. 
14 But you will burn in the fire outside the camp the flesh of the bullock, and its skin and its excrement. It is an offering for sin. 
15 And you will take one of the rams, and Aaron and his sons will put their hands on the head of the ram. 
16 And you will kill the ram, and you will take its blood and sprinkle it on the altar all around. 
17 And you will cut the ram into pieces. And you will wash the bowels and the legs, which you will put on the pieces and on its head. 
18 And you will burn the whole ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to Yahweh. It is an offering made by fire, of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
19 And you will take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons will put their hands on the head of the ram. 
20 And you will kill the ram, and you will take of its blood. And you will put it on the lobe of the right ear of Aaron, and on the lobe of the right ear of his sons, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot. And you will sprinkle the blood on the altar all around. 
21 And you will take of the blood from the altar and of the anointing oil. And you will sprinkle it on Aaron, and on his garments, on his sons, and on their garments. Thus will be sanctified Aaron and his garments, and his sons and their garments. 
22 And you will take from the ram the fat, and the tail, and the fat that covers the bowels, and the large lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat surrounding them, and the right shoulder. For it is the ram of consecration. 
23 And you will also take one loaf of bread, and one oiled bread, and one wafer, from the basket of unleavened bread that is before Yahweh. 
24 And you will put all these things in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and you will wave them from side to side before Yahweh. 
25 Then you will take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar next to the burnt offering. It is an offering made by fire before Yahweh, of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
26 And you will take the breast of the ram that was used for the sanctification of Aaron, and you will wave it from side to side before Yahweh. And it will be your portion. 
27 And you will sanctify the breast and the shoulder of the ram which was used for the consecration of Aaron and his sons. The breast by waving it from side to side, and the shoulder by presenting it by elevation. 
28 And they will belong to Aaron and to his sons, by a perpetual law which the children of Israel will observe. For it is an offering by elevation, and it will be an offering by elevation by the children of Israel from their peace offering, an offering by elevation to Yahweh. 
29 And the holy garments of Aaron will be for his sons after him, who will put them on when they are anointed and consecrated. 
30 They will be worn for seven days by the one of his sons who succeeds him in the priesthood, when he enter the tent of meeting to serve in the holy place. 
31 And you will take the ram of consecration and cook its flesh in the holy place. 
32 And Aaron and his sons will eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of meeting. 
33 They will thus eat those things which served for their atonement, to consecrate and sanctify them. But no stranger will eat of it, because they are holy things. 
34 And if any bread or consecration flesh remains until the morning, you will burn what remains in the fire. It will not be eaten, because it is holy thing. 
35 So you will follow all the commandments that I have given you concerning Aaron and his sons. You will devote seven days to consecrate them. 
36 And you will offer every day a bullock for a sin offering, for atonement. And you will purify the altar by this atonement, and you will anoint it to sanctify it. 
37 For seven days you will make atonement on the altar, and you will sanctify it. And the altar will be most holy, and everything that touches the altar will be holy. 
38 This is what you will offer on the altar: two lambs a year old, day by day continually. 
39 You will offer one of the lambs in the morning, and the other lamb in the evening. 
40 And with the first lamb you will offer a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a quarter of a hin of crushed olive oil, and a drink offering of a quarter of a hin of wine. 
41 And you will offer the second lamb in the evening, and you will do according to the meal offering and the drink offering of the morning. It is a burnt offering of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
42 It is a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before Yahweh. And I will meet with you there and speak to you there. 
43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and this place will be sanctified by my glory. 
44 And I will sanctify the tent of meeting and the altar. I will sanctify also Aaron and his sons, that they may serve me in the priesthood. 
45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God. 
46 And they will know that I am Yahweh their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt to dwell among them. I am Yahweh their God.
