1 And he made the altar of burnt offerings of acacia wood. Its length was five cubits, and its width was five cubits. It was square, and its height was three cubits. 
2 And he made horns on the four corners coming out of the altar, and he covered it with brass. 
3 And he made all the altar utensils. Its ashes, and its brooms, and its basins, and its hooks for flesh, and its firepans. He made all these utensils of brass. 
4 And he made the latticework of brass for the altar, which he placed under the edge of the altar, from the bottom to half the height of the altar. 
5 And he cast four rings of brass, which he placed at the four corners of the latticework to receive the bars. 
6 And he made the bars of acacia wood, and overlaid them with brass.
7 And he put the bars through the rings on the sides of the altar to carry it. He made the altar hollow between the boards. 
8 And he made the basin for washing. He made it of brass with its base of brass, by using the mirrors of the women who assembled at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
9 And he made the courtyard. On the south side southward there were curtains of fine twisted linen, a hundred cubits long. 
10 Their pillars were twenty and their bases of brass were twenty. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
11 On the north side there were a hundred cubits of curtains, with twenty pillars and their twenty bases of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
12 On the west side there were fifty cubits of curtains, with ten pillars and their ten bases. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
13 And for the east side eastward, fifty cubits of curtains. 
14 There were for one side of the courtyard gate, fifteen cubits of curtains with three pillars and their three bases. 
15 And the same for the second side of the courtyard gate. On this hand and that hand by the gate of the courtyard, there were curtains of fifteen cubits with their three pillars and their three bases. 
16 All the curtains forming the enclosure of the courtyard were of fine twisted linen. 
17 And the bases for the pillars were of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver, and their heads were covered with silver. And all the pillars of the courtyard were adorned with silver. 
18 The curtain of the courtyard gate was a work of embroidery of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twisted linen. And its length was twenty cubits, and its height was five cubits as the width of the curtains of the courtyard. 
19 And its four pillars and their four bases were of brass. Their hooks and their fillets were of silver, and their heads were covered with silver. 
20 And all the pins of the tabernacle and of the courtyard round about were of brass. 
21 Above have been specified the parts of the tabernacle, I mean the tabernacle of the testimony, which was approved by the commandment of Moses for the service of the Levites by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
22 So Bezaleel the son of Uri the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah, made all that Yahweh commanded Moses. 
23 And with him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, skilled in engraving and inventing and embroidering on fabrics dyed in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and in fine linen. 
24 The total of the gold used for all the works of the holy place, which was the gold of the offerings, was twenty nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. 
25 But the silver of those of the assembly who were numbered was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred and seventy five shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. 
26 It was half a shekel per head according to the shekel of the sanctuary, this is what each one paid for the numbering. And the persons included in the number were from the age of twenty years and above, and the number was six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men. 
27 And one hundred talents of silver were used to melt the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the veil, a hundred bases for the hundred talents, one talent for one base. 
28 And with the thousand seven hundred and seventy five shekels he made the hooks for the pillars, and covered their uppermost part, and made fillets for them. 
29 And the brass of the offerings was seventy talents and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
30 He made with it the bases to the door of the tent of meeting, and the brazen altar and the brazen grating for it, and all the utensils of the altar. 
31 And the bases of the courtyard all around, and the bases of the gate of the courtyard, and all the pins of the holy place.
