1 Now these are the laws which you will present to them. 
2 If you buy a Hebrew slave, then he will serve six years. And on the seventh he will go out free, without paying anything. 
3 And if he entered alone, then he will go out alone. If he had a wife, then his wife will go out with him. 
4 But if it was his master who gave him a wife and whether she thus had sons or daughters, then the wife and her children will be his master's and he will go out alone. 
5 And if the slave says: I love my master and my wife and my children, I do not want to go out free. 
6 Then his master will lead him before God [by making the case known to the judges]. And the master will also bring him to the door or to the doorposts of the house, and there he will pierce the slave's ear with an awl, and the slave will be in his service forever.
7 Likewise if a man sells his daughter into slavery, she will not go out as men slaves do. 
8 If she displeases her master who had offered to take her as his wife, then he will facilitate her redemption. But he will not have the power to sell her to strangers, since he is unfaithful to her. 
9 But if she was intended for his son, then he will act towards her according to the rights of daughters. 
10 If he takes another wife, he will not take anything away from the rights of the first regarding food or clothing or marital duty. 
11 And if he does not do these three things for her, she will be able to go out free without giving money. 
12 Whoever kills a man will be punished with death. 
13 But if the man has not ambushed the victim, and thus God alone has caused the victim to fall under his hand, then I will establish for you a place where he will flee. 
14 But if anyone acts wickedly against his neighbor by using trickery to kill him, then you will even tear him away from my altar to put him to death. 
15 Anyone who smites his father or mother will be punished with death. 
16 Anyone who steals another person's property and sells it or keeps it in his own hands will be punished with death. 
17 Whoever curses his father or his mother will be punished with death. 
18 If men argue and one of them hits another with a stone or with the fist, without causing death but forcing the victim to stay in bed. 
19 Then the one who struck will not be punished in case the other gets up and goes away with his stick. Only, he will compensate the victim for the interruption of work and pay for the healing. 
20 If a man strikes his servant or his maid with a stick, and the slave dies under his hand, then he will surely be punished. 
21 But if the victim survives a day or two, then the master will not be punished since the slave is his money. 
22 If men quarrel and hurt a pregnant woman, and this make her give birth without any other accident, then they will be punished with a fine imposed by the woman's husband and which they will pay as the judges determine. 
23 But if any harm follow, then you will give life for life. 
24 And eye for eye, and tooth for tooth, and hand for hand, and foot for foot. 
25 And burn for burn, and wound for wound, and bruise for bruise. 
26 If a man strikes the eye of his servant or the eye of his of his maid, and the eye is destroyed, then he will set the slave free as a price for the eye. 
27 And if he knocks out his manservant's tooth or his maid's tooth, then he will set the slave free as a price for the tooth. 
28 If an ox strikes a man or a woman with its horns and death follows, then the ox will be stoned to death and its flesh will not be eaten, but the owner of the ox will not be punished. 
29 But if the ox was previously liable to be stoned because of risky behavior, and the owner was warned but did not take appropriate precautions, then in the event that the animal kills a person, this animal will be stoned and its owner also will be punished with death. 
30 If a ransom is imposed on the owner, then he will pay whatever is imposed on him for the redemption of his life. 
31 Even in the case where the animal hits a son or daughter of the owner, this same law will be applied by the community. 
32 But if the ox strikes a male or female servant, then thirty shekels of silver will be given to the master of the slave by the owner of the animal, and the ox will be stoned. 
33 If a man uncovers a pit or if a man digs one and does not cover it, and an ox or donkey falls into it. 
34 Then the owner of the pit will secure the pit, and he will pay the value of the animal in money to its owner, and will have the dead animal for himself. 
35 If one man's ox injures another man's ox and death follows, then they will sell the living ox and divide the price, and they will also divide the dead ox. 
36 But if it is known that the ox was previously liable to be stoned because of risky behavior, and its owner was informed but did not watch it, then this owner will return ox for ox and will have the dead ox for himself.
