1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words.
2 Speak to the children of Israel and let them turn away and camp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, opposite Baal-zephon. It is opposite this place that you will camp, near the sea. 
3 And Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are lost in the land and the wilderness encloses them. 
4 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart and he will pursue you. But Pharaoh and all his army will serve to make my glory shine, and the Egyptians also will know that I am Yahweh. And the children of Israel did so.
5 And it was announced to the king of Egypt that the people had fled. Then the heart of Pharaoh and that of his servants were changed toward the people and they said, What have we done in letting Israel go, whose services we will no longer have. 
6 And Pharaoh harnessed his chariot, and took his people with him. 
7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over each of them. They were all fighters. 
8 And Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and Pharaoh pursued the children of Israel. For the children of Israel went out with a high hand, through great miracles. 
9 And the Egyptians pursued them with all the horses and the chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his army. And they overtook them while they were camping near the sea, near Pi-hahiroth, opposite Baal-zephon. 
10 As Pharaoh approached, the children of Israel looked up and behold, the Egyptians were walking behind them. And the children of Israel were greatly afraid and cried to Yahweh. 
11 And they said to Moses, did you lead us to die in the wilderness because there were no tombs in Egypt. What did you do to us when you brought us out of Egypt. 
12 Is not this what we told you in Egypt, Let us in rest and serve the Egyptians because we would rather serve the Egyptians than die in the wilderness. 
13 And Moses answered the people, Stay calm and do not be afraid, and look at the deliverance which Yahweh will give you this day. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you will never see them again. 
14 Yahweh will fight for you. Therefore hold your peace. 
15 And Yahweh said to Moses, Why these cries. Tell the children of Israel to move forward. 
16 And lift up your rod and stretch out your hand over the sea to divide it. And the children of Israel will enter the midst of the sea on dry ground. 
17 And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians that they may enter after them, and my glory will shine through Pharaoh and all his army and his chariots and his horsemen. 
18 And the Egyptians will know that I am Yahweh when my glory will shine through Pharaoh and his chariots and his horsemen. 
19 And the angel of God who went before the assembly of Israel left and went behind them. And the pillar of cloud which went before them departed and stood behind them. 
20 And it placed itself between the assembly of the Egyptians and the assembly of Israel. This cloud was dark on one side and on the other it lit up the night. And the two assemblies did not approach each other all night. 
21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea. And Yahweh caused the sea to go back by an east wind which blew violently all night long. And dry ground appeared in the midst of the sea because the waters were divided. 
22 And the children of Israel entered the midst of the sea on dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and a wall on their left. 
23 And the Egyptians pursued and entered after them into the midst of the sea, all Pharaoh's horses and his chariots and his horsemen.  
24 And before the dawn, Yahweh looked down from the pillar of fire and of cloud on the assembly of the Egyptians, and threw the assembly of the Egyptians into disorder. 
25 And he removed the wheels from their chariots and made it difficult to walk, and then each of the Egyptians said: I will flee before Israel because Yahweh fights for them against the Egyptians. 
26 And Yahweh said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea and the waters will return on the Egyptians and on their chariots and on their horsemen. 
27 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea regained its strength early in the morning. And the Egyptians fled when it approached, but Yahweh overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. 
28 And the waters came back and covered the chariots and the horsemen and all the army of Pharaoh, all those who entered the sea after the children of Israel. And not one escaped. 
29 But the children of Israel walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. 
30 Thus Yahweh delivered Israel out of the hand of the Egyptians in that day. And Israel saw the Egyptians dead by the sea. 
31 And Israel saw the mighty hand that Yahweh had directed against the Egyptians. And the people feared Yahweh, and believed in Yahweh and in Moses his servant.
