1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Consecrate to me every firstborn among males. It is the first male among all the males who come from a womb in the midst of the children of Israel, whether men or animals. This belongs to me. 
3 And Moses said to the people, Remember this day when you came out of Egypt from the house of servitude. For it is by a mighty hand that Yahweh has brought you out. You will not eat leavened bread. 
4 You are going out today, in the month of Abib. 
5 Yahweh will bring you to the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites. A land which he swore to your fathers to give you, a land where milk and honey flow. And you will keep this service this month. 
6 For seven days you will eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there will be a feast to Yahweh. 
7 Unleavened bread will be eaten during the seven days. And no leavened bread will be seen with you nor any leaven with you in all the extent of your land. 
8 And you will say to your son on that day, This is in remembrance of what Yahweh did for me when I came out of Egypt. 
9 And it will be for you like a sign on your hand and like a memory between your eyes, that the law of Yahweh may be in your mouth. For by a mighty hand Yahweh brought you out of Egypt. 
10 You will observe this ordinance at the appointed time from year to year. 
11 Yahweh will bring you into the land of the Canaanites as he swore to you and to your fathers, and he will give it to you. 
12 Then you will dedicate to Yahweh all the firstborn and all the firstborn of the animals that you have. The males will belong to Yahweh. 
13 And you will redeem with a lamb the firstborn of the donkey. If you do not redeem it then you will break its neck. You also will redeem every firstborn of man among your sons. 
14 And when your son asks you one day, What does this mean. You will answer him, By a mighty hand Yahweh brought us out of Egypt from the house of bondage. 
15 And as Pharaoh persisted in not letting us go, Yahweh put to death all the firstborn in the land of Egypt from the firstborn of men to the firstborn of animals. Therefore I offer as a sacrifice to Yahweh every firstborn of males, and I redeem every firstborn of my sons. 
16 And It will be like a sign on your hand and like frontlets between your eyes, the fact that Yahweh brought us out of Egypt by a powerful hand. 
17 When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although the closest. For God said, The people might repent when they saw the war and might return to Egypt. 
18 Therefore God made the people take a detour along the path of the wilderness towards the red sea. And the children of Israel went out armed from the land of Egypt. 
19 And Moses took with him the bones of Joseph. For Joseph made the children of Israel swear by saying, God will visit you and you will bring my bones with you from here. 
20 And they departed from Succoth and camped in Etham in the edge of the wilderness. 
21 And Yahweh went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to guide them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they might walk day and night. 
22 And the pillar of cloud did not move away from the people during the day, nor the pillar of fire during the night.
