1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh for I have hardened his heart and the hearts of his servants, to show my miracles among them. 
2 And you will tell your son and your son's son how I treated the Egyptians and what signs I showed among them. And you will know that I am Yahweh. 
3 And Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said to him, Thus says Yahweh the God of the Hebrews, How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me and to let my people go that they may serve me. 
4 If you refuse to let my people go, behold tomorrow I will bring locusts throughout your land. 
5 And they will cover the surface of the ground so that one will no longer be able to see the ground. And they will devour the rest of what has escaped, what the hail has left for you. And they will devour all the trees that grow in your fields. 
6 And they will fill your houses and the houses of all your servants and the houses of all the Egyptians. Your fathers and your fathers' fathers will have seen nothing like this since they were on earth until this day. And Moses turned and went out of Pharaoh's house. 
7 And Pharaoh's servants said to him, How long will this man be a snare to us. Let these people go that they may serve Yahweh their God. Do you not yet see that Egypt is destroyed. 
8 And Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh who said to them, Go and serve Yahweh your God. But who are those who will go. 
9 And Moses answered, We will go with our children and our elders, and with our sons and our daughters, and with our herds and our flocks. For it is a feast for us in honor of Yahweh. 
10 And Pharaoh said to them, May Yahweh be with you, just as I will let you and your children go. Take care for misfortune is before you. 
11 No it will not be so. Now only men among you will go and serve Yahweh, for this is what you have asked. And they were driven out from the presence of Pharaoh. 
12 And Yahweh said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up on the land of Egypt and devour all the herbs of the land and all that the hail has left. 
13 And Moses stretched out his rod over the land of Egypt. And Yahweh caused an east wind to blow on the land all that day and all that night. And when it was morning, the east wind had brought the locusts. 
14 And the locusts came up on the land of Egypt, and settled throughout the whole of Egypt. And they were in such great quantity that there had never been and never will be anything like it. 
15 For they covered the surface of the whole land, and the land was in darkness. And they devoured all the herbs of the land and all the fruit of the trees, everything that the hail had left. And there remained no greenery on the trees nor on the grass of the field, in all the land of Egypt. 
16 Therefore Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron with haste and said to them, I have sinned against Yahweh your God and against you. 
17 Now forgive my sin this time only. And pray to Yahweh your God that he may take this deadly plague from me again. 
18 And Moses went out of Pharaoh's house and prayed to Yahweh. 
19 And Yahweh caused a very strong west wind to blow, which carried away the locusts and threw them into the Red Sea. Not a single locust remained in all the extent of Egypt. 
20 And Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and Pharaoh did not let the children of Israel go. 
21 And Yahweh said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, and let there be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness that can be touched. 
22 And Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven. And there was great darkness throughout the land of Egypt for three days. 
23 They could not see each other and no one got up from his place for three days. But there was light in the places where all the children of Israel dwelt. 
24 And Pharaoh called Moses and said, Go and serve Yahweh. Only your flocks and your herds will remain here, and your children will go with you. 
25 And Moses replied, You will put in our hands the means of offering sacrifices and burnt offerings to Yahweh our God. 
26 Our flocks will come with us, and not a single one will be left. For from among them we will choose to serve Yahweh our God. And until we arrive, we do not know what we will choose to offer to Yahweh. 
27 But Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and Pharaoh did not let them go. 
28 And Pharaoh said to Moses, Get out of my house. And be careful not to appear in my presence again, for on the day you appear before me you will die. 
29 And Moses replied, You said it, I will no longer appear in your presence.
