1 Now Moses shepherded the flock of Jethro, his father in law the priest of Midian. And he led the flock beyond the wilderness, and came to the mountain of God to Horeb. 
2 And the angel of the Yahweh appeared to him in a flame of fire, in the middle of a bush. Moses looked and behold, the bush burned with fire and the bush was not consumed. 
3 And Moses said, I will turn aside to see what this great vision is and why the bush is not consumed. 
4 And Yahweh saw that he turned aside to see, and God called him from the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he answered, Here I am. 
5 And God said, Do not come near here. Take your shoes off your feet, for the place where you are standing is a holy ground. 
6 And he added, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, because he was afraid to look at God. 
7 And Yahweh said, I have surely seen the suffering of my people who are in Egypt. And I have heard their cries because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. 
8 And I came down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land into a good and vast land. In a land where milk and honey flow, in the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite. 
9 Behold the cries of the children of Israel have come to me, and I saw the oppression that the Egyptians put them through. 
10 Now therefore, I will send you to Pharaoh and you will bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. 
11 And Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt. 
12 And God said, Certainly I will be with you. And this will be for you the sign that it is I who send you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt you will serve God on this mountain. 
13 And Moses said to God, So I will go to the children of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. But if they ask me what his name is, what will I tell them. 
14 And God said to Moses, I AM WHO I AM. And he added, Thus will you answer the children of Israel, I AM has sent me to you. 
15 And God said moreover to Moses, You will speak thus to the children of Israel: Yahweh the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name for eternity, this is my memorial from generation to generation. 
16 Go and gather together the elders of Israel and tell them: Yahweh the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob has appeared to me and said, I have seen you and I have seen what is done to you in Egypt. 
17 And I have said, I will bring you out of Egypt where you are suffering and I will give you the land of the Canaanite, of the Hittite, of the Amorite, of the Perizzite, of the Hivite and of the Jebusite, a land where milk and honey flow. 
18 And they will listen to your voice. And you and the elders of Israel will go to the king of Egypt and you will say to him, Yahweh the God of the Hebrews has appeared to us. Allow us to walk three days in the wilderness, to offer sacrifices to Yahweh our God. 
19 And I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go, if not by a mighty hand. 
20 And I will stretch out my hand and strike the Egyptians with all kinds of wonders that I will do among them. After that, he will let you go. 
21 And I will even make this people find favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And when you go, you will not go empty. 
22 Every woman will ask her neighbor and the one who dwells in her house for jewels of silver and jewels of gold and garments, and you will put them on your sons and your daughters. And you will strip the Egyptians.
