1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt in the following words. 
2 This month will be the beginning of months for you. It will be for you the first month of the year. 
3 Speak to all the congregation of Israel and say, On the tenth day of this month, one lamb will be taken for each family, one lamb for each house. 
4 If the house is too small for a lamb, it will be shared with the nearest neighbor, depending on the number of people. You will count for this lamb according to what each person can eat. 
5 The lamb will be without blemish, a one year old male. You can take it from sheep or goats. 
6 And you will keep it until the fourteenth day of this month. And all the congregation of Israel will kill it in the evening. 
7 And they will take some of its blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel of the doors of the houses where it will be eaten. 
8 And that same night they will eat the flesh roasted over the fire. It will be eaten with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. 
9 You will not eat it half cooked and boiled in water, but it will be roasted in the fire with the head and the legs and the inside. 
10 You will let nothing of it to remain until morning. And if there is anything left in the morning, you will burn it in the fire. 
11 And when you eat it, you will have your waist girded and your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand. And you will eat it in haste. It is the Yahweh's Passover. 
12 And I will pass through the land of Egypt in that night, and I will strike down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And I will execute judgment against all the gods of Egypt. I am Yahweh. 
13 And the blood will be a sign to you in the houses where you are. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. And there will be no plague to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. 
14 And you will remember this day, and you will celebrate it with a feast in honor of Yahweh throughout your generations. You will celebrate it as a law forever. 
15 For seven days you will eat unleavened bread. From the first day there will be no leaven in your houses. For whoever eats leavened bread from the first to the seventh day will be cut off from Israel. 
16 On the first day you will have a holy convocation, and on the seventh day you will have a holy convocation. No work will be done on these days except to prepare food for each person. 
17 And you will observe the feast of unleavened bread, for on this very day I will bring your armies out of the land of Egypt. You will observe this day as a law forever throughout your generations. 
18 In the first month and on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you will eat unleavened bread until the evening of the twenty first day. 
19 For seven days no leaven will be found in your houses. For everyone who eats leavened bread will be cut off from the assembly of Israel, whether a foreigner or a native. 
20 You will not eat leavened bread, in all your houses you will eat unleavened bread. 
21 Then Moses called all the elders of Israel and said to them, Go and take lambs for your houses and kill the Passover. 
22 And you will take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that will be in the basin, and you will touch the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin. And none of you will leave your house until morning. 
23 For Yahweh will pass to smite the Egyptians. And when he sees the blood on the lintel and on the two doorposts, Yahweh will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you. 
24 And you will observe this as a law to you and to your children forever. 
25 When you enter the land that Yahweh will give you according to his promise, you will keep this custom. 
26 And when your children will ask you, What does this practice mean to you. 
27 You will answer, It is the Passover sacrifice in honor of Yahweh, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt when he smote Egyptians and saved our houses. And the people bowed down and worshiped. 
28 And the children of Israel departed and did as Yahweh commanded Moses and Aaron. They did so. 
29 And in the middle of the night Yahweh struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive in prison and to all the firstborn animals. 
30 And Pharaoh rose up at night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not a dead person. 
31 And the same night Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said to them, Rise up and come out from among my people, you and the children of Israel. Go and serve Yahweh like you said. 
32 Take your flocks and herds as you said and go, and bless me also. 
33 And the Egyptians pressed the people, and were eager to send them out of the land for they said, We will all perish. 
34 And people took away their dough before it rose. They wrapped them in their clothes and put them on their shoulders. 
35 And the children of Israel did as Moses had said, asking of the Egyptians clothing and jewelry of silver and gold. 
36 And Yahweh made the people to find favor in the eyes of the Egyptians who complied with their request. And they stripped the Egyptians. 
37 And the children of Israel set out from Ramses to Succoth, numbering about six hundred thousand men on foot, not counting the children. 
38 And a multitude of people of all kinds went with them. And they also had considerable flocks and herds. 
39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough they had brought from Egypt and which was not up, because they had been driven out of Egypt without being able to delay and without taking provisions with them. 
40 The stay of the children of Israel in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years. 
41 And at the end of four hundred and thirty years, that same day all the armies of Yahweh went out from the land of Egypt. 
42 This night will be celebrated in honor of Yahweh because he brought them out of the land of Egypt. This night will be celebrated in honor of Yahweh by all the children of Israel throughout their generations. 
43 And Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, This is an ordinance concerning the Passover: No stranger will eat of it. 
44 But you will circumcise every slave acquired for money and then he will eat of it. 
45 The stranger and the mercenary will not eat of it. 
46 It will only be consumed in the house. You will not carry any flesh out of the house nor break any bones. 
47 The whole assembly of Israel will observe the Passover. 
48 If a foreigner residing among you wishes to celebrate the Passover of Yahweh, all the males of his house will be circumcised. Then he will come near to do it and he will be like the native. But no one who is uncircumcised will eat it. 
49 The same law will exist for the native and for the foreigner staying among you. 
50 All the children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses and Aaron. They did so. 
51 And that same day Yahweh brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt according to their armies.
