1 In the seventh year [of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah], on the tenth day of the fifth month, some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Yahweh, and they sat before me. 
2 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
3 Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Have you come to consult me. As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, I will not satisfy your expectation by answering you. 
4 Do you want to judge them, son of man. Do you want to judge them. Cause them to understand the abominations of their fathers. 
5 Say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: In the day when I called Israel, I lifted up my hand to the seed of the house of Jacob and I made myself known to them in the land of Egypt. I lifted up my hand to them and said: I am Yahweh your God. 
6 In that day I lifted up my hand to them, to bring them out of the land of Egypt and lead them into a land that I had chosen for them, a land where milk and honey flow, a land that was the most pleasant of all lands. 
7 And I said to them: Reject every one the abominations that have seduced your eyes and have entered your hearts in this way, do not defile yourselves by the idols of Egypt. For I am Yahweh your God. [Now an idol for a person is simply a preoccupation of that person that is different from the desire to obey the law of Yahweh of which one has knowledge.] 
8 But they rebelled against me, and did not want to listen to me. Every person did not reject the abominations that had seduced his eyes and had entered his hearts in this way, they did not forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I thought to pour out my indignation on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. 
9 But I have acted for the sake of my name, so that it might not be profaned before the nations among whom they had been, those in whose sight I had made myself known to the seed of the house of Jacob in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. 
10 So I brought them out of the land of Egypt and led them into the wilderness. 
11 And I gave them my statutes and showed them my judgments, by which a man will live if he fulfills them. 
12 Moreover I also gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, so that they might know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies them. 
13 But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes and they despised my judgments, by which a man will live if he fulfills them. They also greatly despised my sabbaths. Then I thought to pour out my indignation on them in the wilderness to destroy them.
14 But I have acted for the sake of my name, so that it might not be profaned before the nations in whose sight I brought them out of Egypt. 
15 Nevertheless I swore to them in the wilderness, and declared that I would not bring them into the land which I had chosen for them, a land where milk and honey flow, a land that was the most pleasant of all lands. [I had declared that all those who had offended me, and who were old enough to distinguish between good and evil, should die in the wilderness and should not enter that land which I had chosen.] 
16 I did it because they despised my judgments and did not walk in my statutes, and because they profaned my sabbaths. For their hearts did not depart from their idols. 
17 So my eye had pity on them, and I did not completely destroy them. I did not wipe them out in the wilderness [since I have allowed their children to survive]. 
18 And I said to their children in the wilderness: Do not walk in the ordinances of your fathers, and do not observe their manners, and do not defile yourselves with their idols. 
19 I am Yahweh your God. Walk in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them. 
20 And sanctify my sabbaths, because they are a sign between me and you, so that you may know that I am Yahweh your God. 
21 But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes, nor keep my judgments to do them, those things by which a man will live if he fulfills them. And they also profaned my sabbaths. Then I thought to pour out my indignation on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness. 
22 Nevertheless I have withdrawn my hand and have acted for the sake of my name, so that it might not be profaned before the nations in whose sight I brought them out of Egypt. 
23 But I lifted up my hand to them in the wilderness, and said that I would scatter them among the nations, and disperse them through the countries. 
24 For they had not executed my judgments, and had despised my statutes, and had profaned my sabbaths, and had turned their eyes to the idols of their fathers. 
25 I also gave them statutes that were not good, and judgments by which they could not live. 
26 And I defiled them in their own offerings, when they caused all their firstborn to pass through the fire. I wanted to punish them in this way, and make them know that I am Yahweh. [Now Yahweh is the holy spirit of Elohim, and Elohim is the one who causes all things to happen, but Yahweh has also said that he himself is Elohim and the only Elohim.] 
27 Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Your fathers have continued to insult me, by being unfaithful to me.
28 For when I had brought them into the land that I had sworn to give them, then they looked at every high hill and every thick tree, and they offered there their sacrifices [despite the fact that I had asked not to do it anywhere but only at the place that I have chosen, that is to say in my tabernacle], and there they presented their offerings of provocation [since they no longer even cared about the method and especially the different categories of offerings indicated in my law]. They also burned their sweet smelling incense there, and poured out their drink offerings there. 
29 Then I said to them, 'What are these high places where you are going'. And the name high places has been given to them to this day. 
30 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Have you not defiled yourselves in the manner of your fathers. Have you not committed whoredom according to their abominations. 
31 For you have offered your offerings anywhere [without even worrying about the different categories indicated in my law and without even thinking about me], and you have caused your sons to pass through the fire [to be offerings to your false gods], and you have defiled yourselves by all your idols to this day. And now, should I let myself be consulted by you, O house of Israel. As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, I will not satisfy your expectation by answering you. 
32 Nevertheless what you imagine will not happen. For you say: We want to be like the nations, like the families of the countries. We want to serve wood and stone. 
33 As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, I will surely reign over you with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, and by spreading my fury. 
34 And I will bring you out from among the peoples, and gather you from the countries where you have been scattered, with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, and by spreading my fury. 
35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will judge you face to face. 
36 As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, says the Lord Yahweh. 
37 And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. 
38 And I will separate from among you the rebels, those who transgress against me. I will bring them out of the land where they dwell, but they will not enter the land of Israel, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
39 As for you who have come now to consult me, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord Yahweh: Go and serve every man his idols [that you have in your hearts]. But afterward you will listen to me, and will no longer profane my holy name with your bad offerings and with your idols. 
40 For on my holy mountain, on the high mountain of Israel, says the Lord Yahweh, there the whole house of Israel and all those who are in the land will serve me. And there I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings, and the firstfruits of your crops, and all the things that you will dedicate to me. 
41 I will receive you as a sweet smelling aroma, when I bring you from among the peoples, and gather you from the countries where you have been scattered. And I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations. 
42 And you will know that I am Yahweh, when I bring you back to the land of Israel, to the land that I swore to give to your fathers. 
43 And there you will remember your ways and all your deeds by which you have defiled yourselves, and you will loathe yourselves because of all your evils that you have committed. 
44 And you will know that I am Yahweh, when I act toward you for the sake of my name, and not according to your evil ways, nor according to your wicked deeds, O house of Israel, says the Lord Yahweh. 
45 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
46 Son of man, set your face toward the south, and utter your word toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the south. 
47 And say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of Yahweh. Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will kindle a fire in you, and it will devour every green tree in you, and every dry tree. The flame that will burn will not be quenched, and every face will be burned through it, from the south to the north. 
48 And all flesh will see that I Yahweh have kindled it, and it will not be quenched. 
49 Then I said [I Ezekiel]: Ah Lord Yahweh, the people who are here say of me, 'Is this not a maker of parables'.
