1 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Why do you use the following proverb in the land of Israel: The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. 
3 As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, you will no longer use this proverb in Israel. 
4 Behold all souls are mine. The soul of the father is mine, and the soul of the son is mine. The soul that sins is the soul that will die. 
5 If a man is righteous, then he continuously does what is lawful and right. 
6 He does not go on the mountains to participate in the meals that have been prepared to honor false gods, he does not seek approval from the idols of the house of Israel. He does not commit adultery with the wife of his neighbor, and he does not approach a woman during her menstrual indisposition. 
7 He does not oppress anyone, and he restores the pledge of the debtor. He does not commit robbery [and he does not mislead anyone without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart]. He gives his bread to the hungry, and covers the naked with a garment. 
8 He neither demands nor accepts interest on a loan [taken by a needy person]. He turns away his hand from iniquity, and judges fairly between man and man. 
9 He walks in my statutes and keeps my judgments, in order to act faithfully. Such a person is righteous and he will surely live, says the Lord Yahweh. 
10 If such a person has a son who is a robber, or who sheds innocent blood, or who does similar things. 
11 If that son does not walk in the ways of his father, but participates in the meals that have been prepared to honor false gods, or commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor. 
12 Or oppresses the poor and needy, or commits robbery, or misleads others without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart, or does not restore the pledge [of a debtor who is needy], or seeks approval from false gods, or commits other abominations. 
13 Or demands or accepts interest [on a loan taken by a needy person]. Should such a person live. He will not live, for he has done all these abominations. He will surely die, and his blood will be on him. 
14 Now if a man has a son who sees all the sins that his father commits. And if that son sees it, and fears, and does not do similar things. 
15 If that son does not go on the mountains to participate in the meals that have been prepared to honor false gods, and does not seek approval from the idols of the house of Israel, and does not commit adultery with the wife of his neighbor.
16 If he does not oppress anyone, and does not take a pledge, and does not commit robbery, and does not mislead anyone without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart. If he gives his bread to the hungry, and covers the naked with a garment. 
17 If he turns his hand to help the afflicted, and does not demand or accept interest on a loan [taken by a needy person]. If he executes my judgments and walks in my statutes, then he will not die for the iniquity of his father. He will surely live. 
18 And concerning his father, because oppresses and robs his brother [neighbor], and does what is not good among his people, lo, he will die in his iniquity. 
19 And you say, 'Why does not the son bear the iniquity of the father'. It is because the son has done what is lawful and right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them. He will surely live. 
20 The soul that sins is the soul that will die. The son will not bear the iniquity of the father, and the father will not bear the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous will be on himself, and the wickedness of the wicked will be on himself. 
21 But if the wicked turns away from all his sins that he has committed, and keeps all my statutes, and does what is lawful and right, then he will surely live. He will not die. 
22 All his transgressions that he has committed will be forgiven, and he will live in his righteousness that he is practicing. 
23 Do I take pleasure in the death of the wicked, says the Lord Yahweh. Is it not my wish that he may turn away from his evil ways and live. 
24 And if a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and does according to all the abominations of a wicked person. Should he live. All his righteousness that he has done will be forgotten, and he will die in the transgression that he has committed and in the sin that he has sinned. 
25 And you say, 'The way of the Lord is not fair'. Hear now, O house of Israel. Is not my way fair. Are not your ways unfair.
26 If a righteous person turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, then he will die because of it. He will die through his iniquity that he has done. 
27 If a wicked person turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does what is lawful and right, then he will save his soul alive. 
28 Because he has considered, and has turned away from all his transgressions that he had committed, he will surely live and will not die. 
29 And the house of Israel says, 'The way of the Lord is not fair'. Are not my ways fair, O house of Israel. Are not your ways unfair. 
30 O house of Israel, I will judge you every one according to his ways, says the Lord Yahweh. Therefore repent, and turn away from all your transgressions, so that your iniquity does not cause your destruction. 
31 Cast away from you all your transgressions by which you have transgressed, and make you a new heart and a new spirit. For why should you die, O house of Israel. 
32 For I do not take pleasure in the death of the one who dies, says the Lord Yahweh. Therefore repent and live.
