1 And he brought me into the temple [that is to say, into the holy place of the temple]. And he measured the doorposts. They were six cubits wide on the one side, and six cubits wide on the other side, and it was the width of the tabernacle. 
2 And the width of the door was ten cubits. And the sides of the door were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other side. And he measured the length [of the holy place] which was forty cubits, and the width which was twenty cubits. 
3 Then he went inside [toward the most holy place], and he measured the thickness of each of the doorposts which was two cubits, and the thickness of the door was six cubits, and the width of the door was seven cubits. 
4 And he measured the length of that room which was twenty cubits, and the width which was twenty cubits. The room was in front of the temple [that is to say, in front of the holy place], and he said to me: This is the most holy place. 
5 After that, he measured the thickness of the wall of the house which was six cubits, and the width of every chamber all around the house on every side, four cubits. 
6 And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, and there were thirty rooms on each floor, and they entered into a wall built for them all around the house, and they were built against it without entering into the wall of the house itself. 
7 Each floor of the side rooms around the house was wider than the floor below. The walls of the rooms around the house became narrower the higher they went, therefore the rooms on the top floors were wider. A stairway went up from the lowest floor to the highest floor through the middle floor. 
8 I saw also that the house had a raised basement all around. The foundations of the side chambers were a full reed of six great cubits. 
9 The thickness of the wall, which was for the side chamber outside the house, was five cubits, and that which was left was the place of the side chambers that were within. 
10 And between the chambers was the wideness of twenty cubits all around the house on every side. [That is to say, between the side chambers of the house and priests chambers.] 
11 The doors of the side rooms opened into the raised base. There was one entrance on the north side and one entrance on the south side. The raised base was five cubits wide all around. 
12 Now the building that was in front of the separate place at the end toward the west was seventy cubits width. And the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length was ninety cubits. 
13 So he measured the house [temple] which was one hundred cubits long. And the separate place, its building and its walls, one hundred cubits long. 
14 And the width of the forefront of the house and of the separate place toward the east was one hundred cubits. 
15 And he measured the length of the building in front of the separate place which was behind it, and its galleries on the one side and on the other side. It was one hundred cubits, with the inner temple, and the porches of the courtyard. 
16 The doorposts, and the narrow windows, and the galleries all around on their three stories, opposite the door, were covered with wood all around, and from the ground up to the windows, and the windows were covered. 
17 And to above the door, and to the inner house, and outside, all the surrounding wall, inside and outside, all was according to the measure. 
18 And it was made with cherubim and palm trees. There was a palm tree between a cherub and a cherub, and every cherub had two faces. 
19 And the face of a man was toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a lion was toward the palm tree on the other side. And it was thus all around through all the house. 
20 From the ground to above the door, there were cherubim and palm trees, and on the wall of the temple [the holy place]. 
21 The doorposts of the temple [holy place] were square, and the face of the sanctuary [the most holy place] had the same appearance. 
22 And the altar of wood was three cubits high and two cubits long. And its corners, and its feet, and its sides, were of wood. And the man said to me: This is the table that is before Yahweh. 
23 And the temple [holy place] and the sanctuary [most holy place] had two doors. 
24 And the doors had two leaves, two turning leaves. Two leaves for one door, and two leaves for another. 
25 Cherubim and palm trees were carved on the doors of the temple, as on the walls. And there were thick planks on the forefront of the porch outside. 
26 And there were narrow windows and palm trees on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch, and on the sides of the rooms around the house, and thick planks.
