1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations. 
3 You will say, Thus says the Lord Yahweh to Jerusalem: By your origin and your birth you are from the land of Canaan. Your father was an Amorite, and your mother was a Hittite. 
4 At your birth, in the day you were born, your navel has not been cut and you have not been washed in the water to be cleansed. You have not been rubbed with salt, and you have not been wrapped with swaddling clothes. 
5 No one felt sorry for you, to do one of these things to you, to have compassion for you. But you were thrown in the open field in the day of your birth, out of contempt for your person. 
6 And while I was walking near you, I saw you wallowing in your blood and I said to you, 'Live in your blood'. Yes, I said to you: live in your blood. 
7 I made you multiply like herbs in the field, and you have increased and have become great, and you have acquired excellent ornaments. Your breasts have developed and your hair have grown up while you were naked, entirely naked. 
8 And now while I was walking near you, I looked at you and behold, your time had come. The time of love. And I spread my skirt over you, and covered your nudity. And I swore loyalty to you, and made a covenant with you, says the Lord Yahweh, and you became mine. 
9 Then I washed you with water. Yes, I washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil. 
10 And I gave you embroidered clothes, and shoes made of badger skin. I gave you underwear made of fine linen, and covered you with silk.
11 And I adorned you with ornaments. I put bracelets on your hands, and a chain on your neck. 
12 And I put a ring on your nose, and earrings  in your ears, and a magnificent crown on your head. 
13 Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing were of fine linen, and silk, and embroidered work. And you did eat fine flour, and honey, and oil. You were very beautiful, and you were fit to be queen. 
14 And your fame spread among the nations, because of your beauty. For it was perfect, through the majesty with which I had clothed you, says the Lord Yahweh. 
15 But you have put your trust in your beauty [and not in me], and you have played the whore through your renown. And you have poured out your prostitution on all those who passed by, it was his. 
16 And you have taken your garments, and used them to decorate the high places that you have made for yourself, in order to play the whore there. Such things will not continue, it will not be so. 
17 You took your beautiful jewels made of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and you used them to make images of men in order to fornicate with them. 
18 And you took your embroidered clothes to cover them, and you offered them my oil and my incense. 
19 My bread that I had given you, and the fine flour, and the oil, and the honey, with which I fed you, you have set it before them for a pleasant smell. This is what has happened, says the Lord Yahweh. 
20 And you have taken your sons and your daughters whom you bore to me, and you have sacrificed them to offer them as food to be devoured. 
21 Was your whoredom a small matter. And nevertheless you have slaughtered my children and cause them to pass through the fire in order to honor your lovers. 
22 And in all your abominations and your whoredoms you have not remembered the days of your youth, when you were naked, entirely naked, and were wallowing in your blood. 
23 Woe, woe to you after all your wicked deeds, says the Lord Yahweh. 
24 You have built houses of prostitution, you have made high places in every street. 
25 You have built your high places at every corner of the way, and have made your beauty an abomination. You have opened your thighs to every one who passed by, and have multiplied your whoredoms. 
26 You have also committed fornication with the Egyptians your neighbors, whose body is impressive, and you have increased your whoredom, to provoke me to anger. 
27 Therefore behold, I have stretched out my hand against you, and reduced the portion [of the land] that I had allotted you. And I have delivered you to the will of your enemies, to the daughters of the Philistines who had been ashamed of your wicked ways. 
28 You have played the whore also with the Assyrians because you were insatiable. Yes, you have played the whore with them, and you could not be satisfied. 
29 You have multiplied your fornication in the land of Canaan to the Chaldea, and you have not yet been satisfied. 
30 How wicked is your heart, says the Lord Yahweh. For you have done all these things, the work of a proud whore. 
31 You have built your high places in the corner of every way, and you have made your high places in every street.
32 You have not even been like a whore who asks her lovers for a reward. You have been like an adulterous woman who entertains strangers instead of her husband. 
33 For lovers give gifts to all whores, while you give gifts to all your lovers, and reward them, so that they come to you from every side to fornicate with you. 
34 You are the opposite of other women in your whoredoms. Not only is no one looking for you to fornicate with you, but you are giving wages instead of receiving them. Therefore you are different from others. 
35 Therefore hear the word of Yahweh, O whore. 
36 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because your filthiness has been exposed, and your nakedness has been discovered through your whoredoms with your lovers, with all your abominable idols, and because of the blood of your children whom you have given to them. 
37 Therefore behold I will gather all your lovers with whom you have taken pleasure, all those you whom have loved and all those whom you have hated. I will gather them against you from every side, and I will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness.
38 And I will judge you as one judges adulteresses and those who shed blood, and I will make you a victim of bloodshed through wrath and jealousy. 
39 I will deliver you into their hand, and they will destroy your high places, and they will burn your high places. They will strip you of your clothes, and take your beautiful jewels, and leave you naked, entirely naked. 
40 They will bring up a troop against you, and they will stone you with stones and thrust you through with their swords. 
41 And they will burn your houses with fire, and execute judgments on you in the sight of many women. So I will put an end to your sexual immorality, and you will no longer give wages to be loved. 
42 So I will satisfy my anger against you. And my jealousy will depart from you, and I will be appeased, and I will no longer be angry. 
43 Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, because you have provoked me to anger with all these things, behold I will repay your ways on your own head, says the Lord Yahweh, and you will no longer commit such abominations. 
44 Behold those who use proverbs will use the following proverb on you: Such is the mother, such is her daughter.
45 You are the daughter of your mother, who rejected her husband and her children. You are the sister of your sisters, who rejected their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite, and your father was an Amorite. [Now you have rejected me, your husband who had made a covenant with you, and you have rejected some of your children by offering them as sacrifices to your lovers.] 
46 And your older sister, who dwelt on your left hand, is Samaria and her daughters. And your younger sister, who dwelt on your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters. 
47 You have not only walked in their ways and committed the same abominations. For it was a small thing in your eyes, therefore you have done worse than them in all your ways. 
48 As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done what you and your daughters have done. 
49 Behold this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: she was proud, and she lived in abundance and was careless, she and her daughters. And she did not strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. 
50 They have become haughty and have committed abominations before me. Therefore I took them away, as it seemed good to me. 
51 And Samaria has not committed half of your sins. Your abominations were more numerous than theirs, and you have thus justified your sisters through all the abominations that you have committed. 
52 Therefore, you who have justified your sisters, bear your own shame because of your sins. For they have been punished for their sins despite the fact that they have been more righteous than you, since you have committed things more abominable than what they had committed. Therefore, you too, be confused and bear your shame, for you have justified your sisters. [That is to say, since I must appease my anger against you after having punished you, it will be necessary for me to appease also my anger against those who have been less guilty than you.]
53 So I will bring back their captives, the captives of Sodom and her daughters, and the captives of Samaria and her daughters, and your captives among them. 
54 So that you may bear your own shame and be confused for all that you have done, because you have become a comfort to them [by proving to them that they are not the most guilty peoples in my eyes]. 
55 And your sister Sodom and her daughters will return to their former state. And your sister Samaria and her daughters will return to their former state. And you and your daughters will return to your former state. 
56 You had despised your sister Sodom in the days of your pride, when you were convinced that you were more honorable than she. 
57 This was before your wickedness was discovered, when have been insulted by the daughters of Syria and all those who are around her, by the daughters of the Philistines, all those who despise you on every side. 
58 It is your wickedness and your abominations that have caused your misfortunes, says Yahweh. 
59 For thus says the Lord Yahweh: I will do to you as you have done, you who have despised the oath by breaking the covenant. 
60 Nevertheless I will remember my covenant which I had made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish with you an everlasting covenant. 
61 Then you will remember your ways, and you will be ashamed when you receive your sisters, both the elder and the younger. And I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant. 
62 And I will establish my covenant with you, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
63 And you will remember the former things, and you will be ashamed. And you will never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I will have forgiven you for all the things that you have done, says the Lord Yahweh.
