1 Then he brought me back by the way of the outer gate of the sanctuary that looks toward the east, and it was closed. 
2 And Yahweh said to me: This gate will stay shut. It will not be opened, and no man will enter through it, because Yahweh, the God of Israel, has entered through it. Therefore it will stay shut. 
3 As for the prince, the prince will sit there to eat bread before Yahweh. He will enter by the way of the porch of that gate, and will leave by the same way. 
4 Then he brought me by the way of the north gate which is in front of the house. And I looked, and behold, the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh. And I fell on my face.
5 And Yahweh said to me: Son of man, pay attention and see with your eyes. Listen with your ears to all that I say to you, concerning all the ordinances of the house of Yahweh and all its laws. Consider carefully the entrances of the house and all the exits of the sanctuary. 
6 And you will say to the rebellious, namely the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Enough of all your abominations, O house of Israel. 
7 You have brought into my sanctuary foreigners who are uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to pollute my house. And you have broken my covenant by all your abominations when you offered my bread, the fat and the blood. 
8 And you have not kept the ordinances of the holy things, but you have set others in your place to keep the service in my sanctuary. 
9 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: No foreigner who is uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh will enter my sanctuary, of any foreigner who is among the children of Israel. 
10 Moreover, concerning the Levites who have gone far from me when Israel went astray, those who have turned away from me to follow their idols, they will bear their iniquity.
11 They should have served in my sanctuary, and kept watch over the doors of the house, and ministered in the house [for those among them who are descendants of priests]. They should have slaughtered the burnt offerings and sacrifices for the people, and stood before them to minister to them. 
12 But they have served the people before their idols, and have caused the house of Israel to sin. Therefore I have lifted up my hand against them, says the Lord Yahweh, and they will bear their iniquity. 
13 They will not come near me to minister to me in the priesthood [that is to say, those priests who are among the Levites], they will not come near my holy things or the things that are most holy. They will bear the shame of their abominations which they have committed. 
14 And I will make them keepers of the charge of the house [temple], for all its service and for all that will be done there. 
15 But the priests of the Levites who are the sons of Zadok, they have kept the charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me. Therefore they will come near to me to serve me, and they will stand before me to offer me the fat and the blood, says the Lord Yahweh. 
16 They will enter my sanctuary and come near to my table to serve me, and they will keep my charge. 
17 And when they enter the gates of the inner courtyard, they will wear linen clothes. They will not wear wool while they serve in the gates of the inner courtyard and in the house [made of the holy place and the most holy place]. 
18 They will have linen bonnets on their heads, and linen breeches on their waists. They will not gird themselves with anything that causes sweat. 
19 And when they go forth into the outer courtyard, the outer courtyard of the people, they will take off their garments in which they have served, and put them in the holy chambers, and they will put on other garments. And thus they will not sanctify the people with their garments. [Now one may think that the objective should rather be to prevent people from defiling the garments that are holy, but it is another objective that is specified, unless the two things are equivalent.] 
20 And they will not shave their heads, nor let their hair grow long, but they will trim their hair. 
21 No priest will drink wine when he enters the inner courtyard. 
22 And they will not take a widow or a divorced woman for a wife. For they will take virgins from the descendants of the house of Israel, or they may take a widow who is the widow of a priest. 
23 And they will teach my people the difference between holy and profane, and they will cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean. 
24 And they will rise up to judge in controversies, and they will judge according to my judgments. They will keep my laws and my statutes in all my assemblies, and they will sanctify my sabbaths. 
25 And they will not approach a dead person so as not to defile themselves in this way. But they may defile themselves thus for a father, or a mother, or a son, or a daughter, or a brother, or a sister who has not had a husband. 
26 And after the priest has been made clean, he must wait seven days. 
27 And when he enters the sanctuary, into the inner courtyard, to serve in the sanctuary, then he will offer his sin offering, says the Lord Yahweh. 
28 And here is their inheritance: I am their inheritance. You will not give them a possession in Israel, because I am their possession. 
29 They will eat the meal offerings, and the sin offerings, and the transgress offerings, and every dedicated thing in Israel will be theirs. 
30 And all the first of all the fruit, and all the heave offerings and wave offerings, will be for the priests. And you will give the firstfruits of your dough to the priests, so that a blessing may be on your house. 
31 The priests will not eat anything that has died by itself or that has been torn, whether it be bird or beast.
