1 And I looked, and behold, in the firmament that was above the heads of the cherubim, there was over them something like a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne. 
2 And he spoke to the man clothed in linen, and said: Enter between the wheels, [and go] under the cherubim, and fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city. 
3 And the man went in while I was looking. Now the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house [of Yahweh] when the man walked to them, and the cloud filled the inner courtyard. 
4 And the glory of Yahweh went up from the cherubim and stood over the threshold of the house [of Yahweh]. And the house was filled with the cloud, and the courtyard was filled with the brightness of the glory of Yahweh. 
5 And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard in the outer courtyard, like the voice of the God Almighty when he speaks. 
6 And he had commanded the man clothed in linen by saying, 'Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubims'. So the man went there and stood beside the wheels. 
7 And one cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took of it, and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen. And the man took it and went out. 
8 And there were in the cherubim the likeness a man's hand under their wings. 
9 And I looked, and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside each cherub. And the wheels had the appearance of a beryl stone. 
10 The four wheels had the same shape, and their appearance was such that there seemed to be a wheel within a wheel. 
11 And when they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning while they moved. And they went in the direction of the heads, without turning while they went. 
12 And the whole bodies of the cherubim, including their backs, and their hands, and their wings, were full of eyes all around as were the wheels, the four wheels. 
13 As for the wheels, it was cried to them in my ears: O wheel. 
14 And each of the cherubim had four faces: the first face was the face of a cherub, and the second the face was the face of a man, and the third face was the face of a lion, and the fourth face was the face of an eagle. 
15 And the cherubim rose up. These were the living creatures that I had seen near the river Chebar. 
16 And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them. And when the cherubim spread their wings to fly in the air, the wheels did not turn away from behind them. 
17 When the cherubim stood still, the wheels stood still with them. And when they rose up from the ground, the wheels rose up with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. 
18 And the glory of Yahweh departed from over the threshold of the house [of Yahweh], and stood over the cherubim. 
19 And the cherubim spread their wings, and rose up from the ground in my sight. And they went forth, and the wheels went beside them. And they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the temple of Yahweh, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
20 These were the living creatures that I had seen under the God of Israel near the river Chebar, and knew that they were cherubim. 
21 Every one had four faces, and every one had four wings, and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings. 
22 And concerning the likeness of their faces, they were the faces that I had seen near the river Chebar. They had the same appearance, they were the same. And they went every one straight forward.
