1 Afterward he brought me back to the door of the house. And behold, waters were flowing out from under the threshold of the house eastward. For the forefront of the house was toward the east. And the waters were coming down from under the right side of the house, at the south side of the altar. [Now the altar of burnt offerings is near the house made of the holy place and the most holy place, inside the inner courtyard.] 
2 Then he brought me out by the way of the north gate, and led me around outside to the outer gate that faces the east [that is to say, the gate through which the glory of Yahweh had entered]. And behold, the waters were flowing out on the right side. 
3 And when the man went forth eastward with the measuring line in his hand, he measured a thousand cubits. And he brought me through the waters, and I had the waters up to my ankles. [We were moving toward the east gate.]
4 And he measured another thousand cubits, and brought me through the waters, and the waters were up to my knees. And he measured another thousand cubits, and brought me through, and the waters were up to my waist. [We were moving toward the east gate.]
5 And he measured another thousand cubits, and the waters were a river that I could not pass through. For the waters were so deep that it would have been necessary to swim, a river that could not be passed over. [We were moving toward the east gate.]
6 And he said to me, 'Son of man, have you seen this' [That is to say, if one wants to reach the gate of the glory of Yahweh, like the prince who enters the sanctuary only through the porch of that gate, then one must not be a man but rather a fish]. Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the bank of the river. 
7 Now when I had returned, behold there were very many trees on the bank of the river, on the one side and on the other. 
8 Then he said to me: These waters will flow toward the eastern region, and will go down into the plain, and will enter the sea. And when it will flow into the sea, the waters of the sea will be healed. 
9 And every living creature that will move wherever the rivers will come, will live. And there will be a very great multitude of fish. For these waters will come there, and the waters of the sea will be healed, and everything will live wherever the river comes. 
10 Fishermen will stand on it from En-gedi to En-eglaim, and they will spread their nets. And there will be fish of various kinds, like the fish of the great sea, excessively numerous. 
11 But its miry places and its marshes will not be healed. They will be given to salt.
12 And near the river on its bank, on this side and on that side, will grow all kinds of fruit trees, whose leaves will not wither and whose fruit will not fail. Each will bring forth new fruit according to its months, because their waters will come from the sanctuary [of Yahweh]. And their fruits will be for food, and their leaves will be for medicine. 
13 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: These are the boundaries of the land that you will divide for an inheritance to the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph will have two portions. 
14 And you will inherit it, one as well as another. For I swore with an upraised hand to give it to your fathers. So this land will fall to you for an inheritance. 
15 These are the boundaries of the land: On the north side, from the great sea by the way to Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad. 
16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath. Hazar-hattichon, which is by the border of Hauran. 
17 And the the boundary from the sea will be Hazar-enon at the border of Damascus, and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This will be the north side.
18 The east side will be the Jordan, between Hauran and Damascus and Gilead, and the land of Israel. You will measure from the northern boundary to the eastern sea. This will be the east side. 
19 And the south side southward will be from Tamar to the waters of Meribah at Kadesh, to the brook toward the great sea. This will be the south side southward. 
20 And the west side will be the great sea, from the [south] border as far as over against the entrance of Hamath. This will be the west side. 
21 So you will divide this land to you according to the tribes of Israel. 
22 And you will divide it by lot for an inheritance, to you and to the foreigners who dwell among you and who beget children among you. For they will be considered as natives among the children of Israel, and they will have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.
23 You will give the foreigner his inheritance in the tribe where he sojourns, says the Lord Yahweh.
