1 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy in falsity. Say to those who prophesy out of their own hearts: Hear the word of Yahweh. 
3 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Woe to the foolish prophets, those who follow their own spirit and who have not received my word. 
4 O Israel, your prophets are like foxes in the desolate places. 
5 You have not gone up into the gaps, and you have not made up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of Yahweh. 
6 Their visions are futile and their divination is false. Yahweh has not sent them and nevertheless they say, 'Yahweh has spoken it'. And they have made others hope for the fulfilment of events that will not happen. 
7 Are these not false visions that you declare. Are not your divinations lies. I have not spoken to you, and yet you say: Yahweh has spoken it. 
8 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because you have spoken in falsity and have declared lies, behold I am against you, says the Lord Yahweh. 
9 And my hand will be against the prophets who declare futility as if it were visions, and who prophesy lies. They will not be in the assembly of my people, they will not be written in the book of the house of Israel, and they will not return in the land of Israel. And you will know that I am the Lord Yahweh. [Now this statement of the prophet Ezekiel is a written memorial concerning those false prophets, but this memorial does not describe an admirable behavior that they had had.] 
10 These things will happen because they have deceived my people by saying 'peace', while there will be no peace. And ones have built a wall, and lo, others have plastered it with mortar. 
11 Say to those who cover it with plaster that it will fall. A heavy rain will come, and you, O great hailstones, will fall. And a stormy wind will break it.
12 And behold, the wall is falling down. Will it not be said to you: Where is the plaster with which you have covered it.
13 I will break it with a stormy wind in my fury. And there will be a heavy rain in my anger, and great hailstones in my indignation, to consume it. 
14 So I will destroy the wall that you have plastered with mortar, and I will bring it to the ground, and its foundations will be exposed. It will fall, and you will be consumed there. And you will know that I am Yahweh. 
15 Thus I will accomplish my fury on the wall, and on those who have plastered with mortar. And I will say to you: The wall is no more, and those who had plastered it are no more. 
16 That is to say, the prophets of Israel who prophesy about Jerusalem and who tell visions of peace for her while there will be no peace, says the Lord Yahweh. [Now it appears that the wall referred to earlier is a metaphor to represent a stubborn state of mind.] 
17 And you, son of man, set your face toward the daughters of your people who prophesy out of their own hearts, and prophesy against them. 
18 Say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Woe to the women who sew pillows for every armpit, and make veils for the heads of people of every stature, in order to hunt souls. Will you hunt the souls of my people and save alive the souls who can be useful to you. 
19 You profane me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread. You give advice with the aim of killing the souls who should not die, and keeping alive the souls who should not live. You deceive my people by making them believe your lies. 
20 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I am against your pillows with which you hunt the souls. I will let them fly away, those among them who deserve it, for I will tear those pillows from your arms. And I will let the souls go, and they will be like birds flying from a trap. 
21 I will also tear off your veils, and deliver my people from your hand. They will no longer be caught in the trap of your hand, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
22 Because you afflict the heart of the righteous with lies, when I have not afflicted him, and you strengthen the hands of the wicked to keep him in his wicked way, by promising him life. 
23 Therefore your false visions and your lying divinations will no longer interest my people. For I will deliver my people from your hand, and you will know that I am Yahweh.
