1 And some of the elders of Israel came to me, and sat before me. 
2 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
3 Son of man, these men carry their idols in their hearts and have thus put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. Will I let myself be consulted by them. [Now an idol for a person is simply a preoccupation of that person that is different from the desire to obey the law of Yahweh of which one has knowledge.] 
4 Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Concerning every person of the house of Israel who has set up his idols in his heart, and has thus put the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and who comes to the prophet in order to consult me. I Yahweh will answer such a person according to the multitude of his idols. 
5 Thus I will seize in their own hearts those of the house of Israel who come to consult me ​​to test me, since their hearts are far from me through their idols. 
6 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Return to me. Turn yourselves away from your idols, turn your faces away from all your abominable practices. 
7 And concerning every person of the house of Israel or of the foreigners who sojourn in Israel, who separates himself from me by carrying his idols in his heart, who has thus put the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and who comes to a prophet in order to consult me through him. I Yahweh will answer such a person by myself. 
8 And I will set my face against that person, and I will cause him to become a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from among my people. And you will know that I am Yahweh. 
9 And if the prophet is deceived by his spirit in the answer that he gives to such a person [that is to say, if the prophet gives a favorable answer on my behalf], then it is I Yahweh who have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him, and I will destroy him from among my people Israel. 
10 And they will bear the punishment of their iniquity. The punishment of the prophet will be like the punishment of one who has inquired of me through the prophet. 
11 And thus the house of Israel will no longer turn away from me to defile themselves with all their transgressions [that is to say, when they have the desire to seek me then they must do it with all their heart and not to test me]. And thus they will be my people, and I will be their God, says the Lord Yahweh. 
12 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
13 Son of man, if a land sins against me by committing abominations, and I stretch out my hand against it, and break the staff of its bread, and send a famine there, and destroy both man and beast there. 
14 And if I find in that land one of these three men, Noah or Daniel or Job [that is to say, if I find there some persons who are honest in their behaviors as had been these three men]. Then they will save their own souls by their righteousness, says the Lord Yahweh. 
15 If I cause wild beasts to go through a land, to ravage it and to make it a desolation through which no man may pass because of these beasts. 
16 And if one of these three men is found in that land [that is to say, if I find there some persons who are honest in their behaviors as had been these three men], then I declare that as I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, they will save neither sons nor daughters, but they will be the only ones to be saved and the land will become desolate. 
17 Or if I bring a sword [that is to say, an army of enemies] against that land and say: Sword, go through the land and destroy both man and beast there. 
18 And if one of these three men is found in that land [that is to say, if I find there some persons who are honest in their behaviors as had been these three men], then I declare that as I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, they will save neither sons nor daughters, but they will be the only ones to be saved. 
19 Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my fury on it, carrying out a slaughter by the pestilence in order to destroy both man and beast there. 
20 And if Noah or Daniel or Job is found in that land [that is to say, if I find there some persons who are honest in their behaviors as had been these three men], then I declare that as I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, they will save neither son nor daughter, but they will save their own souls by their righteousness. 
21 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Despite the fact that I will send my four terrible punishments against Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the wild beasts, and the pestilence, in order to destroy both man and beast there. 
22 Nevertheless behold, there will be a remnant who will escape and will be carried away, both sons and daughters. Behold they will come to you, and you will see their way and their deeds, and you will be comforted concerning the disaster that I will have brought on Jerusalem, concerning all that I will have done to it. 
23 And they will comfort you when you see their way and their deeds, and you will know that it is not without cause that I have done all that I will have done to it, says the Lord Yahweh.
