1 Moreover when you divide the land by lot for an inheritance, you will set aside a portion of the land as a holy offering for Yahweh. Its length will be twenty five thousand reeds, and its width will be ten thousand reeds. It will be holy throughout its entire area. 
2 From this portion you will take for the sanctuary five hundred in length with five hundred in width, square all around, and fifty cubits for the suburbs all around. 
3 And from this portion you will take a length of twenty five thousand and a width of ten thousand, and in it will be the sanctuary and the most holy place. 
4 The holy portion of the land will be for the priests who serve in the sanctuary, those who approach Yahweh to serve him. And it will be a place for their houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary. 
5 And the twenty five thousand of length, and ten thousand of width, will be for the Levites who serve in the house, for a possession for themselves, for twenty chambers. 
6 And for the possession of the city, you will set aside five thousand of width and twenty five thousand of length, parallel to the holy portion given. It will be for the whole house of Israel. 
7 And you will set aside a portion for the prince, on both sides of the holy portion and of the possession of the city, and in front of the holy portion and in front of the possession of the city, from the west side westward and from the east side eastward. And the length will be opposite one of the portions, from the western border to the eastern border. 
8 It will be his land, his possession in Israel. And my princes will no longer oppress my people, and they will give the remaining of the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes. 
9 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Enough, you princes of Israel. Cease violence and robbery, do what is lawful and right. Take away your extortion from my people, says the Lord Yahweh. 
10 You will have just scales, and a just ephah, and a just bath. 
11 The ephah and the bath will be of the same measure. The bath will contain a tenth part of a homer, and the ephah will contain a tenth part of a homer. The measure will be in relation to the homer. 
12 And the shekel will be twenty gerahs. The maneh will be twenty shekels, and twenty five shekels, and fifteen shekels [that is to say, sixty shekels]. 
13 And now here is the offering that you will offer. The sixth part of an ephah from every homer of wheat, and the sixth part of an ephah from every homer of barley. 
14 And the tenth part of a bath of oil from every cor of oil. Now a cor is ten baths and thus a homer, for a homer is ten baths. 
15 And one lamb from every two hundred sheep of the flock, from the fat pastures of Israel. All those things are to be given for meal offerings, and for burnt offerings, and for peace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, says the Lord Yahweh. 
16 All the people of the land will give those offering to the prince of Israel. 
17 And the prince will have to give the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the drink offerings, for the feasts days, that is to say, for the new moons, and for the sabbaths, and for all the feasts established for the house of Israel. He will offer the sin offerings, and the meal offerings, and the burnt offerings, and the peace offerings, to make reconciliation for the house of Israel. 
18 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: On the first day of the first month, you will take a young bullock without blemish and cleanse the sanctuary. 
19 And the priest will take of the blood of the sin offering, and put it on the doorposts of the house, and on the four corners of the frame of the altar, and on the doorposts of the gate of the inner courtyard. 
20 You will do the same on the seventh day of the month for everyone who has sinned unintentionally or unwisely. So you will reconcile the house. 
21 On the fourteenth day of the first month, you will have the Passover. The feast will last seven days, and unleavened bread will be eaten. 
22 And on that [fourteenth] day, the prince will offer for himself and for all the people of the land one bullock for a sin offering. [Now the prince is supposed to offer this by the hand of the priests.] 
23 And during the seven days of the feast, he will make a burnt offering to Yahweh. It will be seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish each day during seven days, and a male goat each day for a sin offering. 
24 And he will offer a meal offering with it. It will be an ephah for each bullock and an ephah for each ram, with a hin of oil for each ephah. 
25 And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, during the feast, he will offer during seven days the same sin offerings, and the same burnt offerings, and the same meal offerings, and the same oil.
