1 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, you dwell among a rebellious house. They have eyes to see but do not see, and ears to hear but do not hear. For they are a rebellious house. 
3 Therefore you son of man, prepare your stuff for a long journey, and leave in the daytime in their sight. Depart from your place to another place, in their sight. And maybe they will consider your behavior, despite the fact that they are a rebellious house. 
4 You will take out your stuff in the daytime in their sight, as the stuff of someone who is leaving to dwell elsewhere. And then you will leave in their sight in the evening, and you will act as someone who is going into captivity. 
5 You will dig through the wall [of your house] in their sight, and you will go through there to carry your belongings.
6 You will bear it on your shoulder in their sight, and carry it in the twilight. And you will cover your face so as not to be able to see the ground. For I have set you as a sign for the house of Israel. 
7 And I did as I was commanded. I brought out my belongings in the daytime, as the stuff of someone who is going into captivity. And at evening I dug the wall [of my house] with my hand, and I carried my belongings in the twilight, and I bore it on my shoulder in their sight. 
8 And in the morning the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
9 Son of man, has not the house of Israel, this rebellious house, said to you: What are you doing. 
10 Say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: This is a burden for the rulers who are in Jerusalem, and for all the house of Israel who are there. 
11 Say: I am a sign for you. What I have done is what will be done to them. They will go into exile, into captivity. [We are here in captivity, and some of those who are now in Jerusalem will also go into captivity like us.]
12 And the ruler who is among them will shoulder his package in the dark, and will go forth. And they will have dug through the wall [of the city] to bring him out. And he will cover his face face so as not to be able to see the ground, so as not to be recognized. 
13 And I will spread my net over him, and he will be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon, to the land of the Chaldeans. But he will not see it, although he will die there. 
14 And I will scatter to all the winds all those who will be with him to help him, and all his troops, and I will draw out the sword after them. 
15 And they will know that I am Yahweh, when I scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries. 
16 But I will leave a few of them who will escape from the sword, and from the famine, and from the pestilence, so that they may declare all their misfortunes to the nations among which they will be. And they will know that I am Yahweh. 
17 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me in the following words. 
18 Son of man, you will eat your bread with trembling, and drink your water with fear and with carefulness. 
19 And say to the people who are with you in the land [of the Chaldeans], Thus says the Lord Yahweh concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem and concerning the land of Israel. They will eat their bread with carefulness, and they will drink their water with astonishment. For the land will be desolate from its abundance, because of the cruelty of those who dwell there. 
20 And the cities that are inhabited will be destroyed, and the land will be desolate, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
21 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
22 Son of man, there is among the people the following proverb concerning the land of Israel: The days multiply, and none of the visions is fulfilled. 
23 Therefore tell them the following thing, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: I will cause this proverb to cease, for they will no longer use it as a proverb in Israel. 
24 And say to them: The days are approaching, and all visions will be accomplished. For there will be no more any vain vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel. 
25 For I am Yahweh. I will speak, and the thing that I will say will be accomplished, and will no longer be delayed. For in your days, O rebellious house, I will say the thing and I will perform it, says the Lord Yahweh. 
26 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
27 Son of man, behold the house of Israel says: The visions that he sees are not about to be accomplished. He prophesies for distant times. 
28 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: There will no longer be any delay in the fulfillment of my words [that I speak through my servant Ezekiel]. The word that I speak will be accomplished, says the Lord Yahweh.
