1 Then the spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the temple of Yahweh, the gate that faces the east. And behold, there were twenty five men at the entrance of the gate. And I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, leaders of the people. 
2 Then he said to me: Son of man, these are the men who make evil plans and give wicked advice in this city. 
3 For they say: Disaster is not near, let us build houses. The city is the cauldron, and we are the meat. [Let us continue to do what we like, because it is the natural order of things. The destruction announced by Jeremiah the prophet of Yahweh will not take place. And this city prepares us for the wonderful life we ​​will have after the death of our physical bodies.] 
4 Therefore prophesy against them. Prophesy, O son of man. 
5 And the spirit of Yahweh fell on me, and he said to me, "Speak the following thing: Thus says Yahweh, you have spoken with such words, O house of Israel. And I know what comes into your minds. 
6 You have multiplied the murders in this city, and you have filled its streets with the corpses of those whom you have killed. 
7 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Those whom you or your fathers have killed unjustifiably in this city where the remains of their bones are found, they are the meat and this city is the cauldron [which prepares the vengeance of the innocent blood]. And as for you, you will be brought out of it. 
8 You are afraid of the sword, and I will bring the sword against you, says the Lord Yahweh. 
9 And I will bring you out of the midst of this city, and I will deliver you into the hands of strangers, and I will execute judgments against you. 
10 Many of you will fall by the sword, and I will judge you in the border of Israel, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
11 This city will not be your cauldron, for you will not be its meat [that is to say, nobody in the future will admire what you have done here]. For I will judge you in the border of Israel. 
12 And you will know that I am Yahweh. For you have not walked in my statutes, and have not done my judgments, but you have done according to the manner of the nations that are around you [that is to say, according to the things that they do and that I have explicitly forbidden in the commandments that I have given you through Moses]". 
13 And when I finished to prophesy, Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell on my face and cried with a loud voice by saying: Ah Lord Yahweh, will you destroy all the remnant of Israel [that is to say, all the people who are still in Jerusalem because they have not yet been taken into captivity like me and the others]. 
14 Then the word of Yahweh came to me in the following word. 
15 Son of man, these are your brothers, your brothers who are your relatives and your brothers from all the house of Israel, to whom some of the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said: Turn away from Yahweh, because the land has been given to us for a possession. [That is to say, some of the inhabitants of Jerusalem have incited the others not to worry about the announcement of the destruction of the city that has been proclaimed by Jeremiah the prophet of Yahweh.] 
16 Therefore say the following thing, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Although I have thrown them far off among the nations, and scattered them among the countries, nevertheless I will be like a little sanctuary for them in the countries they will be. 
17 Therefore say the following thing, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you from the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. 
18 And they will come back here, and they will put away from here all the idols and all the abominations. 
19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take away the heart of stone from their bodies, and I will give them a heart of flesh.
20 So that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them. And they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
21 But concerning those whose hearts is turned toward their idols and who delight in their abominations, I will bring back their deeds on their own heads, says the Lord Yahweh.
22 Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels with them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
23 And the glory of Yahweh went up from the midst of the city, and stood on the mountain that was on the east side of the city. 
24 And the spirit lifted me up, in the vision from the spirit of God, and brought me [back] to those who had already been taken captive into Chaldea. And the vision that I had seen vanished from me. 
25 Then I declared to those who had already been taken captive all the things that Yahweh had revealed to me.
