1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, speak to the children of your people and say to them: When I bring the sword on a land, and the inhabitants of that land choose from among themselves a person to set him as watchman. 
3 If the watchman sounds the trumpet to warn the people when he sees the sword coming on the land. 
4 Then the one who listens to the sound of the trumpet and chooses not to prepare himself will have his own blood on his own head if the sword comes and takes him away. 
5 For he has heard the sound of the trumpet, but he has not wanted to prepare himself. Therefore his blood will be on his own head. But if he prepares himself, then he may save his life. 
6 But if the watchman sees the sword coming and deliberately chooses not to sound the trumpet, and the people are not warned, and the sword comes and takes the life of any person from among them, then the victim is taken away because of his own iniquity, but I will demand his blood at the hand of the watchman. 
7  And you, O son of man, I have set you as a watchman over the house of Israel. Therefore you will listen to the word that comes from my mouth, and you will give them warnings from me. 
8 When I say to the wicked, 'O wicked man, you will surely die'. If you do not warn the wicked person in order to turn him away from his evil way, then that wicked person will die in his own iniquity, but I will demand his soul at your hand. 
9 But if you warn the wicked person in order to turn him away from his evil way, and if he does not turn away from his evil way, then he will die in his iniquity but you will save your soul in this matter. 
10 Therefore, O you the son of man, say to the house of Israel: You speak by saying, 'Our transgressions and our sins are on us, and we are wasting away because of them. How then can we live'. 
11 Say to them: As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, I do not take pleasure in the death of the wicked person, and my desire is that the wicked person may turn away from his evil ways and live. Repent, and turn away from your evil ways. For why should you die, O house of Israel. 
12 Therefore, you the son of man, say to the children of your people: The righteousness of the righteous person will not deliver him in the day of his transgression, and the wicked person will not fall by his wickedness if he has turned away from his wickedness [that is to say, I will find a way to give him a useful legacy if he has repented by following the procedure indicated in my law]. The righteous person will not live through his righteousness in the day that he sins [that is to say, I will construct future events to gradually give little importance to his works of justice]. 
13 When I say to the righteous that he will surely live, if he trusts in his righteousness of the past and commits iniquity, then none of his righteous deeds will be remembered [because I will build the future events in such a way as to lessen their importance even if it is after a long period of time], and he will thus die in his iniquity that he has committed. 
14 When I say to the wicked, 'You will surely die'. If he turns away from his sin and does what is lawful and right. 
15 If that wicked person restores the pledge [of a debtor who is needy], and restores what he has stolen, and walks in the statutes of life, and does not commit iniquity, then he will surely live. He will not die. 
16 None of his sins that he had committed will cause his destruction [that is to say, I will succeed in building a useful legacy for him]. For he has done what is lawful and right, and therefore he will surely live. 
17 And the children of your people say, 'The way of the Lord is not fair'. But it is their way that is not fair.
18 If the righteous turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity, then he will die in his sin. 
19 If the wicked turns away from his wickedness and does what is lawful and right, then he will live in his righteousness. 
20 And you say, 'The way of the Lord is not fair'. I will judge you every one according to his ways, O house of Israel. 
21 In the twelfth year of our captivity [which is also the twelfth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah], on the fifth day of the tenth month, a man who had escaped from Jerusalem came to me and said: The city has been smitten. 
22 Now the hand of Yahweh had been on me in the evening before the coming of the one who had escaped, and Yahweh had opened my mouth at that time. So when the man came to me in the morning, my mouth was opened and I was no longer mute. 
23 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
24 Son of man, those who dwell in the desolate places of the land of Israel are saying: Abraham was only one man, and he inherited the land [that is to say, Yahweh promised to give this land to his descendants]. And now we are more numerous [and we are the only children of Jacob who are now here on this ravaged land since all the others have been sent into captivity], therefore the land will be given to us for a possession [that is to say, we deserve it because of whom we are and not because of what we do]. [Now they speak in this way despite the fact that all the sons of Abraham did not inherit the promise made to Abraham, but only Isaac among the many sons of Abraham, and only Jacob among the two twin sons of Isaac.] 
25 Therefore say to them [that is to say, prophesy about them], Thus says the Lord Yahweh: You eat your meat with the blood, and you lift up your eyes to your idols [to ask for their favors], and you kill innocent persons. Should you then inherit the land. 
26 You rely on your sword, and you commit abominations. And each of you commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor. Should you then inherit the land. 
27 Say to them [that is to say, prophesy about them]: Thus speak the Lord Yahweh: As I am alive, surely those who remain in the desolate places will fall by the sword. And concerning those who are in the open fields, I will give them to the beasts to be devoured. And concerning those who are in the strongholds and in the caves, they will die by the pestilence. 
28 And I will make the land a desolation and a subject of astonishment, and the pride of its strength will cease [Now some of the people thought that a complete destruction cannot happen since it is the inheritance that God promised to their fathers]. And the mountains of Israel will be desolate, and no one will pass inside. 
29 Then they will know that I am Yahweh [that is to say, the holy spirit of Elohim who considers what each person does and not who he is], when I will have made the land a desolation and a subject of astonishment because of all the abominations that they have committed.
30 As for you, son of man, the children of your people talk about you near the walls and in the doorways of their houses, and they say to each other, every one to his brother: Come, I pray you, and we will go to hear the new words that have come from Yahweh. [Now they speak thus because they are with you in the land where you have been carried away captive, and they have understood by certain signs that you are a prophet of Yahweh.] 
31 And they come to you like the crowds assemble, and my people sits in front of you, and they listen to your words, but they do not put them into practice. For they show much love with their mouth, but their hearts are engaged in greed. 
32 And lo, you are for them like a talented singer who produces lovely songs and whose pleasant voice is impossible to imitate. For they desire only to hear your words, and do not desire to put them into practice. [And yet they only need to practice your words to be able to become like you, but they do not know it.] 
33 And when all the things that you have announced will have happened, and behold, they are happening, then they will know that there has been a prophet among them.
