1 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: The gate of the inner courtyard that faces the east will be shut on the six working days, but it will be opened on the sabbath, and it will be opened on the day of the new moon. [Now this gate of the inner courtyard is different from the outer gate of the wall that surrounds all the buildings of the sanctuary, and it is not the only gate of the inner courtyard.] 
2 And the prince will enter by the way of the outer porch of that gate, and will stand by the gateposts [of the inner courtyard]. And the priests will offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he will worship at the threshold of the gate. After that he will go out, but the gate will not be shut until the evening [that is to say, that particular gate of the inner courtyard]. 
3 And the people of the land will worship before Yahweh at the entrance of that gate [of the inner courtyard] on the sabbaths and on the new moons. 
4 And the burnt offering that the prince will offer to Yahweh on the sabbath day will be six lambs without blemish and one ram without blemish. [Now the prince is supposed to offer this by the hand of the priests.] 
5 And the meal offering will be an ephah for the ram, and whatever he wants for the lambs, with a hin of oil for each ephah. 
6 And on the day of the new moon, it will be a young bullock without blemish, and six lambs, and a ram. They will be without blemish. 
7 And he will prepare the meal offering, an ephah for the bullock, and an ephah for the ram, and whatever he wants for the lambs, with a hin of oil for each ephah. 
8 And when the prince enters [in the outer courtyard], he will enter by the way of the porch of the gate [namely the outer gate of the sanctuary that looks toward the east], and he will leave by the same way. 
9 But when the people of the land come before Yahweh at the appointed feasts, whoever enters [the outer courtyard] through the north gate to worship will go out through the south gate, and whoever enters through the south gate will go out through the north gate. For no one will not return by the gate through which he has entered, but he will go out through the opposite gate. 
10 And the prince will be there among the people [at the appointed feasts]: when the people go in [through their gates], the prince will go in with them [but through the porch of his gate]. And when they go out [through their gates], the prince also will go out [but through the porch of his gate]. 
11 And in the feasts and in the solemnities, the meal offering will be an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and whatever he wants for the lambs, with a hin of oil for each ephah. 
12 Now when the prince wants to make a freewill burnt offering or a freewill sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh [namely an offering that is not required at that moment in the written law of Yahweh, a deed that is completely on his own initiative], then one will open for him the gate that faces east, and he will prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings as he does it on the sabbath day. After that he will go out, and one will shut the gate when he has gone out. [Now this commandment concern the outer gate through which the glory of Yahweh had entered, and the precision has not been made so as not to clearly reveal that the prince will have this privilege which is reserved for the glory of Yahweh. Nevertheless it is possible to think that it does not concern that particular gate, but rather the gate of the inner courtyard that remains open until evening during each sabbath. And even in this situation one can cogitate about the behavior that the prince must have, since he is the only person of the people who can access the inner courtyard apart from the priests, and on the day when this gate is open until evening he must instead go through the porch of this gate, and it is not the only gate of the inner courtyard. In any case, there is already a very strong connection between the prince and the glory of Yahweh. For the people enter and leave the entire sanctuary through the north and south gates, while the prince must always enter and exit through the porch of the east gate, that gate that remains closed because the glory of Yahweh has entered the sanctuary through it.] 
13 And you will offer a lamb a year old without blemish every day for a burnt offering to Yahweh. You will do it every morning. 
14 And you will prepare its meal offering every morning. It will be the sixth part of an ephah, and the third part of a hin of oil to mingle the fine flour. This will be the meal offering to Yahweh continually, by a perpetual ordinance. 
15 Every morning they will prepare the lamb, and the meal offering with the oil, for a continual burnt offering. 
16 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: If the prince gives a gift from his inheritance to any of his sons, then it will become the property of that son. It will be their possession by inheritance. 
17 But if he gives a gift from his inheritance to one of his servants, then it will belong to that servant until the year of liberty, and after that time it will return to the prince. For the inheritance of the prince will be only for his sons. 
18 Moreover the prince will not take of the inheritance of the people, to thrust them out of their possession. Whatever he gives to his sons for an inheritance, he will take it from his own possession. And thus no one in my people will be removed from his possession. 
19 Then he brought me through the entrance that was beside the gate, into the holy chambers of the priests that stood toward the north. And behold, there was a place in the far corner toward the west. 
20 Then he said to me: This is the place where the priests will boil the flesh of the guilt offerings and of the sin offerings, and where they will bake the meal offerings, lest they carry these [holy] things into the outer courtyard and thus spread holiness among the ordinary people. [Now one may think that the objective should rather be to prevent people from defiling the holy things, but it is another objective that is specified, unless the two things are equivalent.] 
21 Then he brought me into the outer courtyard, and caused me to go by the four corners of the courtyard. And behold, there was a courtyard at each of the corners of the courtyard. 
22 In each of the four corners of the courtyard there was an enclosed area, forty cubits long and thirty cubits wide. All these four places were of the same measurement, at the corners. 
23 And a wall surrounded them, all around those four places, and there were kitchens in the lower parts of the wall all around. 
24 Then he said to me: These are the kitchens where the servants of the house will cook the flesh of the sacrifices offered by the people. [This concerns the part of the offerings that are eaten by the common people.]
