1 In the ninth year [of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah], on the tenth day of the tenth month, the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, write the date of the day, of this day. For [the army of the] king of Babylon will arrive in front of the walls of Jerusalem on this same day. 
3 And speak a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Prepare a cauldron, put it on the fire, and pour water into it. 
4 Put pieces of meat into it, all the good pieces like the thigh and the shoulder. And fill it with the best bones [that is to say, the bones that can be eaten]. 
5 So you will take of the best sheep, and will pile wood and the other bones under the cauldron. Boil it well, and cook the bones that are inside. 
6 For thus says the Lord Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city, to the cauldron whose rust is inside, whose rust has not gone away. Take it out piece by piece, without bothering to cast lots. 
7 For the blood that she has shed is in the midst of her. She has poured it on the top of the rocks, and did not pour it on the ground to cover it with dust. 
8 In order to show my fury, in order to avenge me, I have set her blood on the naked rock, so that it may not be covered. 
9 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Woe to the bloody city. For I will make the pile for fire great. 
10 Pile up the wood, kindle the fire, cook the flesh well, thicken the broth, and let the bones be burned. 
11 Then let the cauldron stand empty on the fire, and let it become so hot that its brass begin to glow. Let its filth melt in it, let its rust be consumed. 
12 Jerusalem may work hard to scrub away her filth, but that rust will not go away. Only the fire of punishment will remove it. 
13 You have sinned against me and have been defiled by your sin. I may wash you to make you clean, but the rust will not come out. You will not be purified until I have caused the fire of my fury to come on you. 
14 I Yahweh, I have spoken it. It will happen, for I will perform it. I will not go back, I will have neither pity nor repentance. They will judge you according to your ways and according to your deeds, says the Lord Yahweh. 
15 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
16 Son of man, behold I take away by a sudden death what makes the delights of your eyes. You will neither lament nor weep. Your tears will not flow. 
17 Refrain from weeping, do not mourn for the dead. Tie your turban on your head, and put your shoes on your feet, and do not cover your lips, and do not eat the bread prepare for mourners. 
18 So I spoke to the people in the morning, and my wife died in the evening. And I did in the next morning as I had been commanded. 
19 And the people said to me: Will you not explain to us what we should understand by this behavior that you have. 
20 Then I answered them: The word of Yahweh has come to me in the following words. 
21 Say to the house of Israel [namely those who are currently with you in captivity], Thus speaks the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will desecrate my sanctuary which is the pride of your power, the delights of your eyes, the object of your love. [And it is going to happen now because yours brothers who are in the land of Judah are misusing it]. And your sons and daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword. 
22 And then you will do as I did. You will not cover your lips, and you will not eat the bread prepare for mourners. 
23 You will have your turbans on your head and your shoes on the feet, and you will neither lament nor weep. But you will waste away because of your iniquities [that is to say, the iniquities of the whole house of Jacob], and talk to each other quietly about your grief. 
24 Thus Ezekiel will be a sign for you, and you will do entirely as he has done. And when these things happen, you will know that I am the Lord Yahweh. 
25 And you, son of man, in the day when I take away from them [the pride of] their strength, the joy of their glory, the delights of their eyes, the object of their love. When I take away their sons and their daughters. 
26 In that day, one of those who will escape will come to you to announce it to you in your ears. 
27 In that day your mouth will be opened to that survivor, and you will speak, and will no longer be mute. So you will be a sign for them, and they will know that I am Yahweh.
