1 Afterward he brought me to the gate, the gate that faced east. 
2 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the east. His voice was like a noise of many waters, and the ground was bright with the light coming from his glory. 
3 And this vision [of the glory of Yahweh] that I saw was like the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city, and these visions were like the vision that I saw near the river Chebar. And I fell on my face. 
4 And the glory of Yahweh came into the house [the entire construction of the sanctuary] through the gate that faced east. 
5 Then the spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner courtyard. And behold, the glory of Yahweh filled the house [made of the holy place and the most holy place]. 
6 And I heard someone speaking to me from the house, and the man was standing near me. 
7 And he [the voice from the house] said to me: Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet. I will dwell there among the children of Israel forever. The house of Israel will no longer defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoredoms and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places. 
8 They had set their threshold near my threshold, and their doorposts near my doorposts, and there was only a wall between me and them [that is to say, they had come in the area of my temple to do unlawful things]. Thus they had defiled my holy name by their abominations which they had committed. Therefore I have consumed them in my anger.
9 And now they will put away their whoredoms and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell among them forever. 
10 And you, son of man, describe this house [temple] to the house of Israel, so that they may be ashamed of their iniquities. And let them measure accurately. 
11 And if they become ashamed of all that they have done, then make known to them the form of this house [temple], its arrangement, its exits and its entrances, all its designs and all its ordinances, all its decorations and all its laws. And write the description in their sight, so that they may keep all its designs and all its ordinances, and do them. 
12 This is the description of the house [that is to say, the description of the temple that has been given previously]. It will be on the top of the mountain, and all its limits all around will be most holy. And behold, this is the description of the house. 
13 And now here are the measures of the altar in cubits, the cubit being a handbreadth longer than the ordinary cubit. The height of the base will be a cubit, and the width a cubit, and the rim will be a span wide. And the base of the altar will be thus. 
14 From the bottom on the ground to the lower rim there will be a length of two cubits, and the width will be one cubit, and from the small to the large frame there will be four cubits, and one cubit wide. 
15 And the altar will be four cubits, and from the altar upward there will be four horns. 
16 And the altar will be twelve cubits long, and twelve cubits wide, and square in its four sides. 
17 And the frame will be fourteen cubits long and fourteen cubits wide on its four sides. The rim will be half a cubit. And its bottom will be one cubit all around, and the steps will face the east. 
18 And he said to me, Son of man, thus says the Lord Yahweh: These are the ordinances for the altar in the day when they will make it, to offer burnt offerings on it and to sprinkle blood on it. 
19 You will give a young bullock for a sin offering to the descendants of Zadok. They are Levites and priests, and they will come near me to serve me, says the Lord Yahweh. 
20 And you will take some of its blood, and put it on the four horns of the altar, and on the four corners of its frame, and on the rim all around. Thus you will cleanse the altar and make atonement for it. 
21 And you will take the bullock of the sin offering, and burn it in the place reserved for it in the house [temple], outside the buildings of the sanctuary. 
22 And on the second day you will offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering. And they will cleanse the altar, as they did cleanse it with the bullock. 
23 When you have completed the cleansing, you will offer a young bullock without blemish, and a ram from the flock without blemish. 
24 And you will bring them before Yahweh, and the priests will throw salt on them, and they will offer them for a burnt offering to Yahweh. 
25 For seven days, you will offer a male goat each day for a sin offering. They will also prepare a young bullock and a ram from the flock, both without blemish. 
26 For seven days, they will make atonement for the altar, and cleanse it, and consecrate it. 
27 And when these days are fulfilled, from the eighth day onward the priests will offer your burnt offerings and your peace offerings on the altar. And I will be favorable to you, says the Lord Yahweh.
