1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, propose a riddle. Tell a parable to the house of Israel. 
3 Say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: A great eagle with great wings, long wings full of colorful feathers, came to Lebanon and took the highest branch of a cedar. 
4 He plucked off the topmost of its young twigs, and carried it to a land of trade, and set it down in a city of merchants. 
5 He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful field. He placed it near abundant waters, and set it like a willow. 
6 And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature. Its branches were turned toward the eagle, and its roots were under him. So it became a vine, and produced branches, and sprouted. 
7 There was another great eagle with great wings and many feathers. And behold, this vine spread its roots toward him and turned its branches toward him, so that he water it through the furrows of her plantation. 
8 It was planted in good soil, near abundant waters, so that it might produce branches, and bear fruit, and become an excellent vine. 
9 Say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Will this vine prosper. Will not the first eagle take away its fruit, and pluck up its roots so that it may wither. It will wither in all its leaves, and it will not take great power or many people to pluck it up by its roots. 
10 Behold it has been planted, but will it flourish. Will it not utterly wither when the east wind blows on it. It will wither in the furrows where it grew. 
11 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
12 Say now to this rebellious house, 'Do you not know what these things mean'. Say to them: Behold Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had come to Jerusalem, and had taken the king [Jehoiachin] and the princes [leaders] there, and had brought them with him to Babylon. 
13 And Nebuchadnezzar had taken a man from the family of the king and had made him the new king of Judah, namely Zedekiah, and had made a covenant with him, and had made him swear an oath. 
14 And Nebuchadnezzar had also taken away the nobles of the land, so that the kingdom might act with humility and not seek to exalt itself, and thus keep his covenant by remaining faithful to him. 
15 But Zedekiah has rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar, and has send his messengers to Egypt in order to obtain many horses and soldiers. Will he who has done such things prosper. Will he escape. Will he escape after breaking such a covenant. 
16 As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, he will die in the land of the king who had made him king, and whose oath he has despised, and whose covenant he has broken. He will die in Babylon. 
17 And Pharaoh with his great army and his great company will not save Zedekiah in the war. And the army of Nebuchadnezzar will erect mounds and build forts, and destroy many persons. 
18 For Zedekiah has despised the oath and broken the covenant [that he had made with Nebuchadnezzar]. He had stretched his hand to approve this covenant, and nevertheless he has done these things. Therefore he will not escape. 
19 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: As I am alive, I will bring this thing back on his head, for he has despised an oath that he has sworn in my name, and has thus broken my covenant. 
20 I will spread my net on him, and he will be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon, and I will enter into judgment with him there concerning his transgression that he has committed against me. 
21 And all his advisers from his troops will die by the sword, and those who remain will be scattered to all the winds. And you will know that I have spoken it, I Yahweh.
22 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: I will also take of the highest branch of the high cedar, and I will set it. And I will cut off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I will plant it on a high and great mountain. 
23 I will plant it on the high mountain of Israel. And it will produce branches, and will bear fruit, and will be an excellent cedar. All the birds will dwell under it, every bird will dwell in the shadow of its branches. 
24 And all the trees of the field will know that I Yahweh have brought down the high tree, and have exalted the low tree. They will know that I have dried up the green tree, and have caused the dry tree to flourish. I Yahweh have spoken it, and I will do it.
