1 And you, son of man, take a sharp knife, a barber's razor. Take it and cause it to pass on your head and on your beard. Then take a scale to weigh, and divide the hairs. 
2 And you will burn a third part of it in the fire in the midst of the city [that is to say, the city of Jerusalem that you have portrayed on the brick], when the days of the siege are completed. And you will take another third part of it, and smite around it with a knife. And concerning the last third part of it, you will scatter it in the wind and I will draw out a sword after them. 
3 And you will take a small amount of it, and bind it in your garment. 
4 And you will take another small amount of it, and throw it into the fire in order to burn it in the fire. For a fire will come from there against the whole house of Israel. 
5 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: This is Jerusalem [which you have portrayed on the brick]. I have set her in the midst of the nations and of the countries that are around her. 
6 And she has changed my judgments into wickedness by doing more abominations than the nations, and she has transgressed my statutes more than the countries that are around her. For they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not walked in them. 
7 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because you have been more rebellious than the nations that are around you, and have not walked in my statutes, and have not kept my judgments, and have not done according to the judgments of the nations that are around you [that is to say, you have not sought to copy some of the things that they do and that are not described as abominations in the commandments that I have given you through Moses]. 
8 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I am against you, yes I. And I will execute my judgments in your midst and in the sight of the nations. 
9 And I will do to you a thing that I have never done before and that I will never do again. It will happen because of all your abominations. 
10 For the fathers will eat their own sons in your midst [because of a great famine], and the sons will eat their own fathers. And I will execute judgments against you, and I will scatter all your remnant to all the winds. 
11 Therefore, as I live, says the Lord Yahweh, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary [and all the land] with all your detestable practices and with all your abominations, therefore I also will destroy you. And my eye will not spare, and I will not have compassion. 
12 A third part of your inhabitants will die by the pestilence or will be consumed by the famine in your midst. And another third part will fall by the sword around you. And I will scatter the last third part to all the winds, and I will pursue them with the sword. 
13 I will accomplish my anger thus. And after this I will give rest to the fury that I have against them, and I will be comforted. And when I will have accomplished my fury against them, then they will know that I have spoken against them in my zeal, I Yahweh. 
14 Moreover I will make you a desolation, and an object of reproach among the nations that are around you, in the sight of any person who will come near this place after those days. 
15 So you will be an object of reproach, and of mockery, and of instruction, and of astonishment, to the nations that are around you, when I will have executed judgments against you in anger, and in fury, and in sharp rebukes. I Yahweh, I have spoken it. 
16 I will send on them the evil arrows of famine, which will be for their destruction, which I will send to destroy you. And I will increase the famine on you, and I will break your staff of bread. 
17 I will send on you the famine and wild beasts, and they will bereaved you of your children. And pestilence and bloodshed will pass through you, and I will bring the sword on you. I Yahweh, I have spoken it.
