1 The hand of Yahweh was on me, and he carried me out in the spirit of Yahweh [that is to say, in a vision], and set me down in the midst of a valley which was full of bones. 
2 And he caused me to pass near them all around, and behold, there were many of them on the surface of the valley, and lo, they were completely dry. 
3 And he said to me, 'Son of man, can these bones live'. And I answered, 'O Lord Yahweh, you know it'. 
4 And he said to me: Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, 'O you dry bones, hear the word of Yahweh'. 
5 Thus says the Lord Yahweh to these bones: Behold I will cause breath to enter you, and you will live. 
6 And I will put sinews on you, and bring up flesh on you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you will live. And you will know that I am Yahweh. 
7 So I prophesied as I had been commanded. And while I was prophesying, there was a noise, and behold, there was a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
8 And I looked, and lo, sinews grew on them, and flesh grew, and skin covered them, but there was no breath in them. 
9 Then he said to me: Prophesy to the wind. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, 'Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these dead bodies so that they may live. 
10 So I prophesied as he had commanded me. And the breath entered them, and they became alive and stood on their feet. It was a very great army. 
11 Then he said to me: Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold they say, 'Our bones have dried up, and our hope is gone, and we are cut off [from the inheritance that Yahweh had given to our fathers]'. [Now the prophet Jeremiah had already announced that there would be a return of the captives after seventy years, but perhaps not to the same persons. And even if there were some persons among them who knew this, it must be known that the people have the habit of doubting each time when they observe difficulties, as after the exodus from the land of Egypt under the leadership of Moses.] 
12 Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will open your graves [since you are saying that you are already dead], O my people, and cause you to come up out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. 
13 And you will know that I am Yahweh, when I open your graves and bring you up from your graves, O my people. [That is to say, when I will revive the hope of all those who will have the desire to return together to repopulate the land promised to their fathers and to serve me there, when I will proclaim your freedom in the places where you are captive] 
14 And I will put my spirit in you, and you will live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you will know that I Yahweh, I have spoken it and performed it, says Yahweh. 
15 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words.
16 And you, son of man, take a stick and write on it, 'For Judah and for the children of Israel his companions'. And take another stick and write on it, 'For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions'. 
17 And you will join them together into one stick, so that they may become one in your hand. 
18 And when the children of your people say to you: Will you not explain to us what these things mean. 
19 Then you will say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel who are his companions, and will put them with the stick of Judah, and I will make them one stick, and they will become one in my hand. 
20 And the sticks on which you have written will be in your hand, before their eyes. 
21 And you will say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will take the children of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land. 
22 And I will make them one people in the land, on the mountains of Israel. And one king will be king over them all. They will no longer be two peoples, they will no longer be divided into two kingdoms. 
23 They will no longer defile themselves with their idols, nor with their abominations, nor with all their transgressions. For I remove them from all the places where they have lived and where they have sinned [in order to send them in captivity now], and I will cleanse them. And they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
24 And my servant David will become king over them, and they will all have one shepherd. They will walk in my judgments, and keep my statutes, and do them. 
25 And they will dwell in the land that I gave to Jacob my servant, where your fathers have dwelt. They will dwell there, they, and their children, and their children's children, forever. And my servant David will be their prince forever. 
26 I will make a covenant of peace with them, and it will be an everlasting covenant with them. I will establish them and multiply them, and I will set my sanctuary in the midst of them forever. 
27 My tabernacle also will be among them. Yes, I will be their God, and they will be my people. 
28 And the nations will know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies Israel, when my sanctuary will be in the midst of them forever.
