1 Then he brought me to the outer courtyard on the north side, and led me into the chamber that faced the separate place and faced the building on the north. 
2 Before the length of one hundred cubits was the north door, and the width was fifty cubits. 
3 Opposite the twenty cubits of the inner courtyard, and the pavement of the outer courtyard, there was gallery against gallery in three stories. 
4 And before the chambers there was a walk of ten cubits wide inward, and a way of one cubit. And their doors were toward the north. 
5 Now the upper chambers were narrower than the lower ones and the middle ones, because the galleries took up space for them. 
6 For they were in three stories, but had not pillars like the the pillars in the courtyards. Therefore from the ground, the upper chambers were narrower than the lower and middle ones. 
7 And the wall parallel to the chambers, on the side of the outer courtyard, in front of the chambers, was fifty cubits long. 
8 For the length of the chambers that were in the outer courtyard was fifty cubits. And lo, there were one hundred cubits before the temple. 
9 At the bottom of these chambers was the entrance from the east, as one came into them from the outer courtyard.
10 There were also chambers along the width of the wall of the courtyard on the east side, opposite the separate place and opposite the building. 
11 And the way before them was like the appearance of [the way of] the chambers which were toward the north. The length and width were the same. Their exits, and their layout, and their doors were similar. 
12 And according to the doors of the chambers that were toward the south was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one enters them. 
13 Then he said to me: The north chambers and the south chambers, which are before the separate place, they are holy chambers where the priests who offer the sacrifices to Yahweh will eat the most holy things. And they will lay there the most holy things, and the meal offerings, and the sin offerings, and the transgress offerings. For the place is holy. 
14 When the priests come, they will not go out of the sanctuary into the outer courtyard without changing clothes, but they will place there the garments with which they minister. For these garments are holy. And they will put on other clothes, and only then they will approach the areas allowed to other people. 
15 Now when he had finished measuring the inner house, he brought me out by the gate that faced east, and he measured the surrounding area. 
16 He measured the east side with the measuring reed, and it was five hundred reeds by the measuring reed. 
17 He measured the north side, five hundred reeds by the measuring reed. 
18 He measured the south side, five hundred reeds by the measuring reed. 
19 He turned toward the west side, and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed. 
20 He measured the wall all around, on all the four sides. The length was five hundred reeds, and the width was five hundred reeds, to make a separation between the sanctuary and the profane place.
