1 Then he cried out with a loud voice in my ears by saying: Come near, you who must punish the city, every man with his instrument of destruction in hand. 
2 And behold, six men came by the way of the upper gate which is on the north side, and every man had his instrument of destruction in his hand. And one man among them was clothed in linen and he had an equipment of a scribe at his waist, the pen and the ink. And they went in, and stood beside the altar of brass. 
3 And the glory of the God of Israel went up from the cherubim on which it was, to the threshold of the house [of Yahweh]. And he called to the man clothed in linen, who had an equipment of a scribe at his waist. 
4 And Yahweh said to him: Go through midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and cry over all the abominations that are done in the city.
5 And he said to the others in my ears: Go after him through the city, and smite. Do not let your eyes spare, and do not have pity. 
6 Destroy utterly the old men, and the young men, and the maidens, and the children, and the women, but do not approach anyone on whom is the mark. And you will begin at my sanctuary. 
7 So they began with the elders who were in front of the house. And he said to them: Defile the house, fill the courtyards with the dead bodies of those whom you will kill there, and then you will continue outside. So they went out, and they killed the people in the city. 
8 And I was there while they were killing the people, and I fell on my face, and I cried by saying: Ah Lord Yahweh, will you destroy all the residue of Israel while you are pouring out your fury on Jerusalem. 
9 Then he said to me: The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great, and the land is full of blood [that is to say, the blood of innocent people], and the city is full of injustice [that is to say, full of corrupt judgments]. For they say, 'Yahweh has forsaken the land, and Yahweh does not see'. 
10 Therefore I also will change my kindness into fury. My eye will not spare, and I will have no pity. I will bring back their deeds on their heads. 
11 And behold, the man clothed in linen who had the inkhorn at his waist reported the matter by saying: I have done as you have commanded me.
