1 And you, son of man, take a brick and place it in front of you, and portray the city of Jerusalem on it. 
2 And lay a siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it. Surround it with a camp, and set battering rams against it all around. 
3 Take an iron pan, and set it as an iron wall between you and the city. And turn your face toward it, and it will be besieged, and you will lay siege against it. This will be a sign for the house of Israel. 
4 Then you will lie on your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it. And you will bear their iniquity according to the number of days that you will lie on your left side. 
5 For I will lay on you the years of their iniquity, according to the number of days, one hundred and ninety days. You will bear in this way the iniquity of the house of Israel.
6 And when you have completed these days, you will lie on your right side, and you will bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days. A day for you will be for a year for them. 
7 And you will turn your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm uncovered. And you will prophesy against it. 
8 And behold, I will lay ropes on you, and you will not be able to turn from one side to another, until you have completed the days of your siege. 
9 You will take wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt. And you will put them in one vessel, and make bread from them for the number of days that you will sleep on your side. You will eat of it during one hundred and ninety days. 
10 And the food that you will eat will have a weight of twenty shekels per day. You will eat of it from time to time. 
11 And you will drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin. You will drink from time to time. 
12 You will eat your food as barley cakes, and you will bake it in their sight with human excrement. 
13 And Yahweh said: This is how the children of Israel will eat their defiled bread among the nations where I will drive them. 
14 Then I said: Ah Lord Yahweh, behold my soul has not been defiled from my youth until now. For I have not eaten any animal that is dead or torn, and no unclean flesh has entered my mouth. 
15 Then he said to me: Lo, I give you the dung of cow instead of the dung of human, and you will prepare your bread with it. 
16 And he said to me: Son of man, behold I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem. And they will eat bread by weight, and with care. And they will drink water by measure, and with astonishment.
17 For they will lack bread and water, and they will be astonished, and they will be consumed for their iniquity.
