1 In the twenty fifth year of our captivity [which is also the twenty fifth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah], in the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the destruction of the city of Jerusalem [and of the temple of Yahweh which was there], on that very day, the hand of Yahweh was on me and he brought me into the land of Israel. 
2 He brought me there by a vision from God. And he put me on a very high mountain, and there was something like the construction of a city on the south side. 
3 And he brought me there, and behold, there was a man whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a linen thread and a measuring rod in his hand, and he was standing at the gate. 
4 And the man said to me: Son of man, see with your eyes and listen with your ears, and pay attention to all the things that I will show you. For you have been brought here so that I may show you these things. You must declare to the house of Israel all that you will see. 
5 And behold, an outer wall surrounded the house on all sides. In the man's hand was a measuring line of six cubits, each cubit being a handbreadth larger than the ordinary cubit. And he measured the thickness of the wall which was one reed, and its height which was one reed. 
6 Then he went to the east gate, and went up its steps. And he measured one of the doorposts which was one reed in width, and the other doorpost which was one reed in width. 
7 And each chamber of the guardrooms was one reed in length, and one reed in width. And the space between the chambers was five cubits. and the post of the gate near the porch of the gate within was one reed. 
8 And he measured the porch of the gate within with one reed. 
9 Then he measured the porch of the gate which was eight cubits, and its posts which were two cubits. And the porch of the gate was inward. 
10 And the chambers [guardrooms] of the gate eastward were three on this side, and three on that side. All three had the same measure, and the posts on each side had the same measure. 
11 And he measured the breadth of the opening of the gate which was ten cubits, and the height of the gate which was thirteen cubits. 
12 And there was a border in front of those chambers, one cubit on this side and one cubit on that side. And each chamber was six cubits on this side and six cubits on that side. 
13 And he measured the gate from the roof of one chamber to the roof of the other. The width was twenty five cubits, door against door. 
14 And he measured sixty cubits for the posts, beside which was a courtyard around the gate. 
15 The space between the forefront of the entrance of the gate and the forefront of the porch of the inner gate was fifty cubits.
16 And there were narrow windows in the chambers, and in their posts within the gate all around, and likewise to the arches. And windows were all around inward. And palm trees were carved on the posts. 
17 Then he brought me into the outer courtyard. And lo, there were chambers, and a pavement made for the courtyard all around. There were thirty chambers on the pavement. 
18 And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the length of the gates was the lower pavement. 
19 Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate to the forefront of the inner courtyard. It was one hundred cubits eastward and northward. 
20 And he measured the length and the width of the north gate that was in the wall surrounding the outer courtyard. 
21 It was fifty cubits in length and twenty five cubits in width. And its chambers, three on this side and three on that side, and its posts and its arches, had the same measurements as for the first gate.  
22 And their windows, and their arches with their palm trees, were the same as for the east gate. And one entered it by seven steps, before which were its arches. 
23 And the gate of the inner courtyard was over against the gate toward the north, and toward the east. And he measured from gate to gate one hundred cubits. 
24 And he brought me toward the south, and lo, there was a gate toward the south. And he measured its posts and its arches, and they had the same measurements as for the other gates. 
25 And there were windows in it, and in its arches all around, like the other windows [of the other gates]. The length was fifty cubits, and the width was twenty five cubits. 
26 One ascended to it by seven steps, in front of which was its arches. And it had palm-trees, one on this side, and another on that side, on its posts. 
27 And there was a gate in the inner courtyard toward the south. And he measured from gate to gate toward the south one hundred cubits. 
28 And he brought me to the inner courtyard by the south gate. And he measured the south gate, and they had the same measurements as for the other gates. 
29 And its chambers, and its posts, and its arches, they had the same measurements as for the other gates. And there were windows in it, and in its arches all around, like the other windows [of the other gates]. The length was fifty cubits, and the width was twenty five cubits. 
30 And the arches all around had twenty five cubits in length and five cubits width. 
31 And its arches were toward the outer courtyard. And there were palm trees on its posts, and eight steps to go up to it. 
32 And he brought me into the inner courtyard toward the east. And he measured the gate, and it was of the same measurement.
33 And its chambers, and its posts, and its arches, they had the same measurements as for the other gates. And there were windows in it, and in its arches all around, like the other windows [of the other gates]. The length was fifty cubits, and the width was twenty five cubits.
34 And its arches were toward the outer courtyard. And there were palm trees on its posts, on this side, and on that side. And eight steps to go up to it. 
35 And he brought me to the north gate. And he measured it, and it was of the same measurement.
36 And its chambers, and its posts, and its arches. And there were windows in it all around, like the other windows [of the other gates]. The length was fifty cubits, and the width was twenty five cubits. 
37 And its posts were toward the outer courtyard. And there were palm trees on its posts, on this side, and on that side. And eight steps to go up to it.  
38 And the chambers and their entries were by the posts of the gates, and they washed the burnt offering there.
39 And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, on which they killed the burnt offerings, and the sin offerings, and the transgress offerings. 
40 And on one side, outside the entrance to the north gate, there were two tables. And on the other side, which was at the porch of the gate, there were two tables. 
41 So there were four tables on one side, and four tables on the other side. Eight tables in all, on which they killed the sacrifices. 
42 There were also four tables of hewn stone for the burnt offerings, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit high. On these tables were to be placed the instruments with which they killed the burnt offerings and the sacrifices. 
43 And the hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened within all around. And on the tables was the flesh of the offerings. 
44 And outside the inner gate there were chambers for the singers in the inner courtyard. One was beside the north gate facing south, and the other was beside the east gate facing north. 
45 And he said to me: This chamber facing south is for the priests who are on duty and serving in the house [that is to say, those who serve in the holy place inside the temple]. 
46 And the chamber facing north is for the priests who are on duty and serving at the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, they are the ones among the sons of Levi who will come near to Yahweh to minister to him. 
47 And he measured the courtyard, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide, foursquare. And the altar was in front of the house. 
48 Then he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured the posts of the porch, five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side. And the width of the gate was three cubits on this side and three cubits on that side. 
49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the width was eleven cubits. One entered it by steps. And there were pillars near the posts, one on this side and another on that side.
