1 In the sixth year [of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, that is to say, during the sixth year of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah and five years before the destruction of Jerusalem and of the house of Yahweh built by Solomon], on the fifth day of the sixth month, I was sitting in my house and the elders of Judah were sitting in front of me [in the land where we had been carried away captive], and the hand of the Lord Yahweh fell there on me. 
2 Then I looked, and lo, there was the likeness of a man who had the appearance of fire from his waist downward. And from his waist upward there was brightness like the appearance of amber. 
3 And he stretched out the form of a hand, and took me by a lock of the hair of my head. And the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and brought me to Jerusalem by a vision from God. He brought me at the entrance of the inner gate that looks toward the north, where there was the idol of jealousy, that is to say, an idol that was provoking the jealousy [of Yahweh]. 
4 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according to appearance that I had seen in the valley. 
5 Then he said to me, 'Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north'. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, northward at the gate of the altar, this idol that was provoking the jealousy [of Yahweh] was in the entrance. 
6 And he said to me: Son of man, do you see what they have done. Do you see the great abomination that the house of Israel have committed here to cause me to depart from my sanctuary. And now I will show you greater abominations that they are committing. 
7 And he brought me to the entrance of the courtyard. And I looked, and behold, there was a hole in the wall. 
8 Then he said to me, 'Son of man, dig now in the wall'. And when I had dug in the wall, behold there was a door.
9 And he said to me: Go in, and see the wicked abominations that they are committing here. 
10 So I went in, and looked, and behold, there were all kinds of images of creeping things, and of abominable beasts, and of all the idols of the house of Israel. All this was portrayed on the walls all around [with the aim of worshipping them as gods]. 
11 And there were seventy men of the elders of Israel, and Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan stood among them. And each of them had a censer in his hand, and the vapors of the incense were forming a cloud above them. 
12 Then he said to me: Son of man, do you see what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark. Each man has a special room for his own false god. For they say, 'Yahweh does not see us, Yahweh has forsaken the land'. 
13 And he said to me: And now I will show you a greater abomination that the people of Judah is committing. [These ones do not even hide themselves]. 
14 And he brought me to the entrance of the gate of the temple of Yahweh, the gate which was toward the north. And behold, there sat women weeping for the false god Tammuz. 
15 Then he said to me: Do you see this thing, O son of man. And now I will show you another abomination greater than these. 
16 And he brought me into the inner courtyard of the temple of Yahweh. And behold, at the entrance of the house of Yahweh [which is the unique structure formed by the most holy place and the holy place and the adjacent rooms], between the portico and the altar of the burnt offerings, there were about twenty five men with their backs toward the house of Yahweh and their faces toward the east. And they were worshipping the sun toward the east. [And it was their intention to ask the favors of the sun, and not to worry about the holy place and the most holy place of the house of Yahweh which was behind them.] 
17 Then he said to me: Do you see this thing, O son of man. Is it a small thing for the house of Judah to commit these abominations that they do here [inside the large structure that has been built to be the temple that is called by my name]. For they also fill the land with cruelty through the behaviors that they have towards each other, and they do many other things to provoke me to anger. And lo, they put the branch to their nose. 
18 Therefore I also will change my kindness into fury. My eye will not spare, and I will have no pity. They will cry in my ears with a loud voice at that time, but I will not listen to them.
