1 And he said to me: Son of man, eat what you see. Eat this scroll and go, and speak to the house of Israel. 
2 So I opened my mouth, and he gave me the scroll to eat. 
3 And he said to me, 'Son of man, feed your belly and fill your bowels with this scroll that I give you'. And I ate it, and it was sweet in my mouth like honey. 
4 And he said to me: Son of man, go to the house of Israel and declare them my words. 
5 For you are not sent to a people of an obscure speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel. 
6 For there are many peoples of an obscure speech and of a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely they would have listened to you if I were sending you to them. 
7 But the house of Israel will not listen to you, because they do not want to obey me. For all the house of Israel have a hardened forehead and a stubborn heart.
8 Behold I have made your face strong against their faces, and your forehead strong against their foreheads.
9 I have made your forehead like a diamond, harder than the flint. Do not be afraid of them and do not be dismayed by their appearances, although they are a rebellious house. 
10 And he said to me: Son of man, listen with your ears and receive into your heart all the words that I speak to you. 
11 Go to the captives, to the children of your people, and speak to them. Whether they listen or refuse to listen, you will say to them: Thus says the Lord Yahweh.
12 Then the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great crowd which was saying: Blessed be the glory of Yahweh from his dwelling place. 
13 And I heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the noise of the wheels beside them, and the noise a great crowd. 
14 So the spirit took me up, and carried me away. I went in the bitterness and the indignation of my mind [because of the rebellion of the children of my people against the word of Yahweh], and the hand of Yahweh was strong on me. 
15 Then I came to those who had been led captives to Tel-abib, who were dwelling near the river Chebar, and I sat where they were sitting. And I remained there seven days, and I was astonished among them. [I was amazed that they did not have a burning desire to submit to Yahweh, since Yahweh had declared to me that they were rebels.]
16 And at the end of seven days, the word of Yahweh came to me in the followings words. 
17 Son of man, I have set you as a watchman over the house of Israel. You will listen to the word of my mouth, and you will give them warnings from me. 
18 If I say to the wicked, 'You will surely die'. And if you do not warn him, if you do not speak to that wicked person in order to turn him away from his evil way and thus save his life, then that wicked person will die in his iniquity and I will require his blood at your hand.
19 But if you warn that wicked person, and he does not turn away from his wickedness and from his evil way, then he will die in his iniquity but you will save your soul in this matter. 
20 Likewise if a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and thus commits iniquity, then I will lay a snare before him and he will die. He will die in his sin, and his righteous deeds which he had done will not be remembered [because I will build the future events in such a way as to lessen their importance even if it is after a long period of time], and I will require his blood at your hands if you have not warned him while you had the possibility to do it. 
21 But if you warn the righteous person in order to prevent him from succumbing to the temptation of sin, and if he does not sin because you have succeeded in strengthening him, then he will live and you will have saved your soul [that is to say, you will have saved your soul partly through him].  
22 And the hand of Yahweh was there on me, and he said to me: Get up and go to the valley, and I will speak to you there. 
23 So I got up and went to the valley, and behold, the glory of Yahweh appeared there, like the glory that I saw near the river Chebar. Then I fell on my face. 
24 Then the spirit entered into me, and set me on my feet, and spoke to me by saying: Go, and shut yourself within your house. 
25 And you, son of man, behold they will put ropes around you and bind you, to prevent you from going out among them. 
26 And I will cause your tongue to cling to the roof of your mouth, and you will be dumb, and you will not be able to blame them. For they are a rebellious house. 
27 But when I speak to you, I will open your mouth and you will say to them, 'Thus says the Lord Yahweh'. Whoever want to listen, let him listen, and whoever do not want to listen, let him not listen. For they are a rebellious house.
