1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them. 
3 And say, You the mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Yahweh, thus says the Lord Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the rivers and to the valleys: Behold I will bring a sword against you and I will destroy your high places, yes I. 
4 And your altars will become desolate, and your images of the sun will be broken. And I will cast down your dead bodies in front of your idols. 
5 I will lay the dead bodies of the children of Israel in front of their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. 
6 Your cities will be desolate in all the places of your dwellings, and your high places will be desolate. So your altars will be devastated and desolate, and your idols will be broken and will vanish, and your images of the sun will be cut down, and your works will be abolished. 
7 And your people will be killed, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
8 But I will leave a remnant. For some of you will escape the sword among the nations, when you will be scattered through the countries. 
9 And those who will have survived will remember me among the nations where they will be carried captive. They will know that I have been grieved by their adulterous and unfaithful heart, and by their eyes that have played the whore with their idols. And they will loathe themselves because of the evils that they have committed in all their abominations. 
10 And they will know that I am Yahweh, and that I have not threatened them in vain to bring all this evil on them. 
11 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Smite with your hand, and stamp with your foot, and say, 'Alas'. Do it because of all the wicked abominations of the house of Israel. For they will fall by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
12 He who is far off will die by the pestilence, and he who is near will fall by the sword, and he who remains and is besieged will die by the famine. Thus I will accomplish my wrath on them. 
13 And you will know that I am Yahweh, when the dead bodies of your people will be among their idols and around their altars, in the places where they offered sweet savor to all their idols, that is to say, on every high hill, and on all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak. 
14 And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblah. And it will happen throughout all their habitations, and they will know that I am Yahweh.
