1 In the thirtieth year [after the book of the law given by Moses was discovered in the time of Josiah king of Judah], on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was among the captives near the river Chebar, the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God. 
2 On the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah. 
3 The word of Yahweh came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans near the river Chebar. It was there that the hand of Yahweh was on him. 
4 And I looked, and behold, a whirlwind came from the north, a great cloud with fire flashing from it, and there was a great brightness all around it. And there was the likeness of amber in its midst, in the midst of the fire. 
5 And there came from its midst the likeness of four living creatures, and this was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man. 
6 Each of them had four faces, and each had four wings.
7 And their feet were straight feet, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of the foot of a calf, and they sparkled like burnished brass. 
8 And they had human hands under their wings, on their four sides. The faces and the wings of the four living creatures appeared as follows. 
9 Each had [two of] its wings joined one to another. And none of them did turn in his own way while they moved, but each moved straight ahead. 
10 And concerning the appearance of their faces, each had the face of a man on the front, and each had the face of a lion on the right side, and each had the face of an ox on the left side, and each had the face of an eagle on the back. 
11 Thus were their faces. And their wings were stretched upward. Two of the wings of each were joined one to another, and the other two wings covered its body. 
12 And every one moved straight forward. And they went wherever the spirit led them, and none of them did turn in his own way while they moved. 
13 And concerning the brightness of these living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps. For the fire was circulating among the living creatures, and was giving a brilliant light, and flashes of lightning were coming out of it.
14 And the living creatures were running here and there like lightning. 
15 And I looked at the living creatures, and behold, there were four wheels that were touching the ground, one wheel behind each of the living creatures who had four faces. 
16 The appearance of the wheels and their work was like that of beryl. And all four had the same shape, and their appearance and their work was such that there seemed to be a wheel within a wheel. 
17 And when they moved, they could go in any of the four directions without turning while they moved. 
18 Their rims were tall and fearsome, and the four wheels had their rims full of eyes all around. 
19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went with them. And when the living creatures were lifted up from the ground, the wheels were lifted up too. 
20 Wherever the spirit led them, they went, and the wheels were moving with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. 
21 Whenever the living creatures moved, the wheels moved with them. And whenever they stood still, the wheels stood still with them. And whenever they were lifted up from the ground, the wheels were lifted up with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. 
22 And above the heads of the living creatures there was the likeness of a firmament, like a shining crystal, stretched out above over their heads. 
23 And their wings were straight under the firmament, the one toward the other. Each had two wings covering him [from above], and each had two wings covering his body. 
24 And I heard the noise of their wings while they were moving, like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty. It was a tumultuous sound like the noise of an army. And whenever the living creatures stopped moving, they put their wings at their sides. 
25 And there was a voice from the firmament that was above their heads, whenever they stopped moving and put their wings at their sides. 
26 And above the firmament that was over their heads, there was something like a sapphire stone in the form of a throne. And on the form of the throne there was the likeness of a man sitting on it above. 
27 And I looked at him from his waist upward, and I saw the appearance of amber, and there was like a fire within it and all around. And I looked at him from his waist downward, and I saw the appearance of a fire, and there was brightness all around him. 
28 And the light shining around him was like a rainbow in a cloud. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Yahweh. And when I saw it, I fell on my face. And then I heard a voice speaking to me.
