1 Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end, beside the way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, Hazar-enan at the border of Damascus, northward beside Hamath, from the east side to the west side: Dan, one portion. 
2 And on the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side: Asher, one portion. 
3 And on the border of Asher, from east side to the west side: Naphtali, one portion. 
4 And on the border of Naphtali, from east side to the west side: Manasseh, one portion. 
5 And on the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side: Ephraim, one portion. 
6 And on the border of Ephraim, from the east side to the west side: Reuben, one portion. 
7 And on the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side: Judah, one portion. 
8 And on the border of Judah, from the east side to west side, there will be the place that you will give as an offering. It will be twenty five thousand reeds wide, and its length will be like the length of one of the portions of the tribes namely from the east side to the west side. And the sanctuary will be in the middle of this section of land. 
9 And the land that you will offer to Yahweh will be twenty five thousand reeds long, and ten thousand wide. 
10 And the priests will have this holy portion, it will be for them. Twenty five thousand reeds on the north side, and ten thousand wide on the west side, and ten thousand wide on the east side, and twenty five thousand long on the south side. And the sanctuary of Yahweh will be in the middle. 
11 It will belong to the priests who are consecrated among the sons of Zadok. For they kept the service of my sanctuary and have not erred when the children of Israel and the Levites went astray. 
12 Therefore this part of the land that will be offer will belong to them, and will be a most holy thing near the border of the other Levites. 
13 And the inheritance of the Levites will be opposite the border of the priests. It will be twenty five thousand in length, and ten thousand in width. The whole length will be twenty five thousand, and the width will be ten thousand. 
14 And they will not sell a part of it, nor exchange any part of it, nor alienate any part of it. For it is holy to Yahweh. 
15 And the five thousand that remain in width, in front of the twenty five thousand, will be for the city, for dwellings and suburbs, and the city will be in the midst of it. 
16 And these are their measurements: on the north side four thousand and five hundred, on the south side four thousand and five hundred, on the east side four thousand and five hundred, on the west side four thousand five hundred. 
17 And the city will have suburbs: on the north side two hundred and fifty, on the south side two hundred and fifty, on the east side two hundred and fifty, on the west side two hundred and fifty. 
18 And the remainder in the length, parallel to the holy portion, will be ten thousand eastward and ten thousand westward. It will be parallel to the holy portion, and its products will be the income of those who serve in the city. 
19 And those who serve in the city will be from all the tribes of Israel, and they will farm this land. 
20 And the whole dedicated land will be twenty five thousand in length and twenty five thousand in width. You will set aside a square portion, for the sanctuary and for the possession of the city. 
21 And the remainder will be for the prince, on both sides of the holy portion and the possession of the city. It will be in front of the twenty five thousand of the holy portion on the east border, and in front of the twenty five thousand on the west border, parallel to the portions of the tribes. This will be for the prince. And the holy portion with the house of the sanctuary will be in the middle.
22 So after having set apart all the possessions of the Levites and the possessions of the city, the remainder of that section of land that is parallel to the portions of the tribes will be for the prince. All the remainder of the land between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin will be for the prince. 
23 These are the other tribes: From the east side to the west side: Benjamin, one portion. 
24 And on the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side: Simeon, one portion. 
25 And on the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side: Issachar, one portion. 
26 And on the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side: Zebulun, one portion. 
27 And on the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side: Gad, one portion. 
28 And on the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border will be from Tamar to the waters of Meribah in Kadesh, and to the river toward the great sea. 
29 It is the land that you will divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for an inheritance, and those sections will be their portions, says the Lord Yahweh. 
30 And these are the exits of the city: on the north side, four thousand and five hundred measures. 
31 And the gates of the city will be according to the names of the tribes of Israel. There will be three gates on the north: one gate of Reuben, and one gate of Judah, and one gate of Levi. 
32 And on the east side, four thousand and five hundred measures, and three gates: one gate of Joseph, and one gate of Benjamin, and one gate of Dan. 
33 And on the south side, four thousand and five hundred measures, and three gates: one gate of Simeon, and one gate of Issachar, and one gate of Zebulun. 
34 And on the west side, four thousand and five hundred measures, and three gates: one gate of Gad, and one gate of Asher, and one gate of Naphtali. 
35 So the perimeter all around the city will be eighteen thousand measures. And the name of the city from that day will be: Yahweh is here.
