1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh to the shepherds: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves. Should not the shepherds feed the sheep. 
3 You eat the fat, and you clothe yourselves with the wool. You kill the fatlings, but you do not feed the sheep. 
4 You have not strengthened the weak, nor healed the sick, nor bound up the injured ones. You have not brought back the straying ones, nor sought the lost ones. But you have ruled over them with harshness and cruelty. 
5 And they have been scattered because they had no shepherd. They have become prey to all the beasts of the field when they were scattered. 
6 And my sheep have wandered through all the mountains and on every high hill. Yes, my sheep were scattered all over the land, and there was no one to search them and to take care of them. 
7 Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh. 
8 As I am alive, says the Lord Yahweh, because the lack of shepherds has caused my sheep to become a prey and be devoured by all the beasts of the field, because my shepherds have not searched my sheep to take care of them, because the shepherds have fed themselves instead of feeding my sheep. 
9 Therefore, O you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh. 
10 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I am against the shepherds, and I will require my lost sheep at their hand. I will no longer let them feed my sheep, and those shepherds will no longer feed themselves. For I will deliver my sheep out of their mouths, and my sheep will no longer be a prey for them. 
11 For thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I myself, even I, will search my sheep and will take care of them. 
12 As a shepherd seeks his sheep when he is with them and they begin to stray, so I will seek out my sheep and gather them from all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. 
13 And I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, near the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the land. 
14 I will feed them in a good pasture, and their sheepfold will be on the high mountains of Israel. There they will lie down in a pleasant sheepfold, and they will feed on the fat pasture of the mountains of Israel. 
15 I will feed my sheep, and bring them to their rest, says the Lord Yahweh. 
16 I will seek the lost sheep, and bring back those who are straying, and bind up those who are injured, and strengthen those who are sick. But I will destroy the fat and the strong, I will feed them with the punishment that they deserve. 
17 As for you, O my sheep, thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I will judge between sheep and sheep, and between the rams and the goats. 
18 Is it too little for you to graze in a good pasture. For you trample with your feet the remnant of your pasture. And when you have drunk of the clear waters, then you trouble the remnant with your feet. 
19 And my sheep graze what your feet have trampled, and drink what your feet have troubled. 
20 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh to them: Behold I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the thin sheep. 
21 Because you have thrust with your side and your shoulder, and have push all the weak with your horns, until you have driven them away. 
22 Therefore I will help my sheep, and they will no longer be a prey. I will judge between sheep and sheep. 
23 And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he will feed them, even my servant David. He will feed them, and he will be their shepherd. 
24 And I Yahweh, I will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I Yahweh, I have spoken it. 
25 And I will make a covenant of peace with them, and I will cause the evil beasts to disappear from the land. They will dwell safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the forests. 
26 But before that, I will make them and the places around my hill a blessing. I will send the rain in its season, and it will be a shower of blessing. 
27 And the trees of the field will yield their fruit, and the land will yield its produce, and they will be safe in their land. And they will know that I am Yahweh, when I break the bars of their yoke and deliver them from the hand of those who have enslaved them [that is to say, when I will set them free in the places where they are captive]. 
28 And they will no longer be a prey to the nations, and the beasts of the land will no longer devour them. They will dwell in safety, and no one will make them afraid. 
29 And I will establish for them a plantation of renown, and they will no longer be consumed by the famine in the land, and they will no longer bear the reproach of the nations. 
30 And they will know that I Yahweh their God am with them, and that they the house of Israel are my people, says the Lord Yahweh. 
31 And you my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, you are men and I am your God, says the Lord Yahweh.
