1 Now these are the men of the province who returned from captivity, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, every one to his city. 
2 They went to Jerusalem with Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and Nehemiah, and Seraiah, and Reelaiah, and Mordecai, and Bilshan, and Mispar, and Bigvai, and Rehum, and Baanah. 
3 And these are the numbers of the men of the people of Israel. The sons of Parosh, two thousand and one hundred and seventy two. 
4 The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy two. 
5 The sons of Arah, seven hundred and seventy five. 
6 The the sons of Pahath-Moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and twelve. 
7 The the sons of Elam, one thousand and two hundred and fifty four. 
8 The sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty five. 
9 The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty. 
10 The sons of Bani, six hundred and forty two. 
11 The sons of Bebai, six hundred and twenty three. 
12 The sons of Azgad, one thousand and two hundred and twenty two. 
13 The sons of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty six. 
14 The sons of Bigvai, two thousand and fifty six. 
15 The sons of Adin, four hundred and fifty four. 
16 The sons of Ater, of the family of Hezekiah, ninety eight. 
17 The sons of Bezai, three hundred and twenty three. 
18 The sons of Jorah, one hundred and twelve. 
19 The sons of Hashum, two hundred and twenty three. 
20 The sons of Gibbar, ninety five. 
21 From the town of Bethlehem, one hundred and twenty three. 
22 From the town of Netophah, fifty six. 
23 From the town of Anathoth, one hundred and twenty eight. 
24 From the town of Azmaveth, forty two. 
25 From the towns of Kiriath-arim, and of Chephirah, and of Beeroth, seven hundred and forty three. 
26 From the towns of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty one. 
27 From the town of Michmas, one hundred and twenty two. 
28 From the towns of Bethel and Ai, two hundred and twenty three. 
29 From the town of Nebo, fifty two. 
30 From the town of Magbish, one hundred and fifty six. 
31 From the other Elam which is a town, one thousand and two hundred and fifty four. 
32 From the town of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
33 From the towns of Lod, and of Hadid, and of Ono, seven hundred and twenty five. 
34 From the town of Jericho, three hundred and forty five. 
35 From the town of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty. 
36 And of the classes of priests: the sons of Jedaiah through the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy three. 
37 The sons of Immer, one thousand and fifty two. 
38 The sons of Pashhur, one thousand and two hundred and forty seven. 
39 The sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen. 
40 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel through the house of Hodaviah, seventy four. 
41 The singers: the sons of Asaph, one hundred and twenty eight. 
42 The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, and the sons of Ater, and the sons of Talmon, and the sons of Akkub, and the sons of Hatita, and the sons of Shobai. All were one hundred and thirty nine. 
43 The Nethinim (who had a special function in the temple): the sons of Ziha, and the sons of Hasupha, and the sons of Tabbaoth. 
44 And the sons of Keros, and the sons of Siaha, and the sons of Padon. 
45 And the sons of Lebanah, and the sons of Hagabah, and the sons of Akkub. 
46 And the sons of Hagab, and the sons of Shamlai, and the sons of Hanan. 
47 And the sons of Giddel, and the sons of Gahar, and the sons of Reaiah. 
48 And the sons of Rezin, and the sons of Nekoda, and the sons of Gazzam. 
49 And the sons of Uzza, and the sons of Paseah, and the sons of Besai. 
50 And the sons of Asnah, and the sons of Meunim, and the sons of Nephisim. 
51 And the sons of Bakbuk, and the sons of Hakupha, and the sons of Harhur. 
52 And the sons of Bazluth, and the sons of Mehida, and the sons of Harsha. 
53 And the sons of Barkos, and the sons of Sisera, and the sons of Temah. 
54 And the sons of Neziah, and the sons of Hatipha. 
55 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, and the sons of Sophereth, and the sons of Peruda. 
56 And the sons of Jaalah, and the sons of Darkon, and the sons of Giddel. 
57 And the sons of Shephatiah, and the sons of Hattil, and the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, and the sons of Ami. 
58 All the Nethinim and the sons of Solomon's servants were three hundred and ninety two. 
59 And now these are those who went from Tel-melah, and Tel-harsha, and Cherub, and Addan, and Immer, and who could not make known their genealogies and their tribes, to prove that they were of Israel. 
60 The descendants of Delaiah, and the descendants of Tobiah, and the descendants of Nekoda, six hundred and fifty two. 
61 And there were also some among the priests who could not prove their belonging to the family of the priests [for Aaron the brother of Moses was the first priest, and it is only a male child of a priest who is a priest]. There were the sons of Habaiah, and the sons of Hakkoz, and the sons of Barzillai [whoever had married one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite was called by their names and therefore designated as being a descendant of Barzillai].
62 These men sought their references in the genealogical records, but they were not found. Therefore these men were put out of the priesthood. 
63 And the governor commanded them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest had consulted with Urim and Thummim. 
64 And the whole congregation was made of forty two thousand and three hundred and sixty men. 
65 Besides their men-servants and their maid-servants who were seven thousand and three hundred and thirty seven. And there were also two hundred singers, both men and women. 
66 And they had seven hundred and thirty six horses, and two hundred and forty five mules. 
67 And four hundred and thirty five camels, and six thousand and seven hundred and twenty donkeys. 
68 And some of the chiefs of the fathers' houses, when they arrived at the place where the house of Yahweh had been in Jerusalem, they willingly gave gifts to build the foundations of the house of God at the place where it had been. 
69 And they gave to the treasury of the work, according to their ability, sixty one thousand darics of gold, and five thousand pounds of silver, and one hundred priests' garments. 
70 So the priests and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinims, they dwelt in their cities and all Israel dwelt in their cities.
