1 And the seventh month came, and the children of Israel were dwelling in their cities, and the people assembled as one man to Jerusalem. 
2 And Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brothers the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brothers, they arose and built the altar of the God of Israel in order to offer burnt offerings thereon as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God. 
3 And they set up the altar on its base, although they were afraid of the peoples of the land [the kings of Assyria had sent some people into the territory of the kingdom of Israel after their captivity, and the kings of Babylon had sent some people into the territory of the kingdom of Judah after their captivity], and they offered burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar, namely the morning and evening burnt offerings. 
4 And they celebrated the feast of tabernacles, as it is written [in the book of the law of Moses], and offered burnt offerings day by day according to the number appointed for each day. 
5 And from that time they offered the continual burnt offerings [every morning and every evening], and the burnt offerings of the new moons [the beginnings of the months] and of all the holy feasts of Yahweh, and the burnt offerings of everyone who willingly offered a freewill burnt offering to Yahweh. 
6 They began to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh on the first day of the seventh month, but the foundation of the temple of Yahweh had not yet been laid. 
7 And they gave money to the masons and to the carpenters. And they also gave food and wine and olive oil to those of Sidon and of Tyre, in order to bring cedar wood from Lebanon to Joppa through the sea, according to the authorization given to them by Cyrus king of Persia. 
8 And in the second year after they had come to the house of God in Jerusalem, in the second month, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the remaining of their brothers the priests and the Levites, and all those who had returned from the captivity to Jerusalem, they began the work and appointed the Levites from twenty years old and upward to oversee the construction of the house of the house of Yahweh. 
9 And Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, and Kadmiel with his sons who were of the sons of Judah, and the sons of Henadad with their sons and their brothers the Levites. And they supervised those who worked in the house of God. 
10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of Yahweh, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise Yahweh according to the ordinances of David king of Israel. 
11 And they sang to praise and to give thanks to Yahweh by saying 'For he is good, because his mercy endures forever toward Israel'. And all the people shouted with a great shout while they were praising Yahweh, because the foundation of the house of Yahweh was being laid. 
12 But many of the priests and the Levites, and of the chiefs of the fathers' houses, namely all those elders who had seen the first house of Yahweh, they were weeping with a loud voice while the foundation of this new house was being laid before their eyes. And many others of the people were shouting for joy. 
13 And thus the sound of the shouting for joy could not be distinguished from the sound of weeping among the people. For the people shouted with a loud cry, and the noise could be heard afar off.
