1 After these things were done, the princes [leaders] came to me and said: The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands and are doing according to their abominations. The abominations of the Canaanites, and of the Hittites, and of the Perizzites, and of the Jebusites, and of the Ammonites, and of the Moabites, and of the Egyptians, and of the Amorites. 
2 For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, and have mixed the holy seed with the peoples of the lands [that is to say, they have mixed the duties of the people of Israel with the usual abominations of these other peoples], and the princes and the rulers were the first to commit this transgression. 
3 And when I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my mantle, and plucked the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down desolate. 
4 And all those who feared the words of the God of Israel assembled to me, because of the transgression of the children of the captivity. And I sat down desolate until the evening sacrifice. 
5 And I arose from my mortification at the time of the evening sacrifice, with my garments and my mantle torn, and I fell on my knees and spread out my hands toward Yahweh my God. 
6 And I said: O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to you. For our iniquities have multiplied over our heads, and our transgression is grown up to the heaven. 
7 From the days of our fathers to this day we have committed great transgressions. And because of our iniquities, we, and our kings, and our priests, we have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands. We have been given to the sword, and to captivity, and to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it appears this day. 
8 And yet Yahweh our God has been gracious to us by causing a remnant to escape. And he has given us a refuge in his holy place, to illuminate our eyes and to give us some refreshment in our slavery. 
9 For we are bondmen and nevertheless God has not forsaken us in our bondage. He made us find grace in the sight of the kings of Persia, to reinvigorate us in order to set up the house of our God and repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. 
10 And now, O our God, what will we say after this. 
11 For we have forsaken your commandments which you commanded us by your servants the prophets by saying: The land into which you will enter to possess it, is a land defiled by the filthiness of the peoples of that land. For they have filled it from one end to the other with their filthiness, by their abominations. 
12 Now therefore you will not give your daughters to their sons, and you will not take their daughters for your sons, and you will never feel concerned by their misfortunes and distress. And thus you will be strong [if you do not participate in their evil behavior], and you will eat of the goodness of the land, and you will leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.
13 So our evil deeds and our great transgression have caused all that have happened to us. And nevertheless you have not punished us according to our iniquities, for you have given us these survivors. 
14 If we continue to transgress your commandments by uniting with these abominable peoples [namely by imitating their practices], will not your anger come back against us until you destroy us without leaving a single survivor. 
15 O Yahweh the God of Israel, you are righteous. And you have allowed that there be survivors to perpetuate the legacy of our people, as it appears today. Behold we stand before you in our new transgression, and we cannot lift up our faces before you because of this.
