1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia [that is to say, the first year after he conquered the kingdom of Babylon], in order to fulfill the word of Yahweh spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah, Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia and he made the following proclamation throughout all his kingdom, both by word of mouth and in writing.
2 Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: Yahweh the God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has commanded me to build him a house in Jerusalem which is in Judah.
3 Who among you is of his people. May his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem which is in Judah and build the house of Yahweh the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. 
4 And in every place where is sojourning anyone belonging to that people, the inhabitants of this place will relieve him with silver, and gold, and goods, and livestock, besides a freewill offerings for the house of God which is to be build in Jerusalem. 
5 Then the chiefs of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests and the Levites, and all those whose spirit God had stirred, they arose in order to go up and build the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem. 
6 And all those who were around them strengthened their hand with utensils of silver, and with gold, and goods, and livestock, and precious things, besides all the freewill offerings [which they gave especially for the house of God]. 
7 And king Cyrus returned the utensils of the house of Yahweh which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem and had put in the house of his god. 
8 It is those utensils that Cyrus king of Persia brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer who gave them to Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah [the captain among the people who were returning from the captivity]. 
9 And this is their number: thirty basins of gold, and one thousand basins of silver, and twenty nine knives.
10 And thirty bowls of gold, and four hundred and ten silver bowls of second order, and one thousand other utensils. 
11 All the utensils of gold and silver were five thousand and four hundred. And Sheshbazzar carried all these things from Babylon to Jerusalem when he returned with other captives.
