1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia [Artaxerxes being a title, and it is not the same king as the one mentioned previously], Ezra arose. He was the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah. 
2 The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub. 
3 The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth.
4 The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki. 
5 The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the high priest. 
6 This Ezra came from Babylon. He was a scribe versed in the law of Moses, the law which Yahweh the God of Israel had given. And because the hand of Yahweh his God was on him, therefore the king Artaxerxes granted him all his requests. 
7 And some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and of the Levites, and of the singers, and of the gatekeepers, and of the Nethinim, they came up to Jerusalem in the seventh year of king Artaxerxes. 
8 And Ezra came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, in the seventh year of king Artaxerxes. 
9 For Ezra departed from Babylon on the first day of the first month, and he came to Jerusalem on the first day of the fifth month, according to the good hand of his God that was on him. 
10 For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Yahweh, and to do it, and to teach the precepts and judgments. 
11 And this is the copy of the letter that king Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest and scribe, who was a writer of the words of the commandments of Yahweh and of his statutes to Israel. 
12 Artaxerxes king of kings, to Ezra the priest and scribe who is versed in the law of the God of heaven, Greetings. 
13 I have given orders to let go all those of the people of Israel, and of their priests and of their Levites, namely all those who are in my kingdom and who are willing to go with you to Jerusalem.
14 You are sent by the king and his seven counselors, in order to inspect Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God which is in your hand. 
15 And to carry the silver and gold that the king and his counselors have willingly offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem. 
16 And all the silver and gold that you can find in all the province of Babylon, namely the freewill offerings that the people may willingly give to the priests for the house of their God in Jerusalem. 
17 And you will take care to use this money to buy bullocks, and rams, and lambs, and their meal offerings and their drink offerings. And you will offer them on the altar of the house of your God in Jerusalem. 
18 And concerning the remaining of the silver and of the gold, you and your brothers the Jews will use it according to the will of your God to do whatever seems good to you. 
19 And concerning the utensils that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, you will lay it before God in Jerusalem. 
20 And you can use the money of the king's treasury for anything else that is needed for the house of your God. 
21 And I king Artaxerxes have commanded all the treasurers who are on the other side of the river Euphrates to give to Ezra, the priest and scribe versed in the law of the God of heaven, whatever he will ask of you. 
22 Up to one hundred talents of silver, and one hundred measures of wheat, and one hundred baths of wine, and one hundred baths of oil, and unlimited salt. 
23 Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven. For why should he be angry against the realm of the king and of his sons. 
24 And concerning all the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim, namely all the servants of this house of God, we certify it will not be lawful to impose on them any tribute or customs fees or toll.
25 And you Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God which is in your hand, you will appoint judges and magistrates to judge all the people who are beyond the river Euphrates. You will choose them among all those who know the laws of your God, and you will teach all those who do not know that law. 
26 And whoever will not do both the law of your God and the law of the king, the same will be judged without delay. And depending on the crime, the punishment may be death, or banishment, or confiscation of property, or imprisonment. 
27 Blessed be Yahweh the God of our fathers, for he has prepared the heart of the king of Persia to beautify the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem. 
28 And also because he has made me find favor sight of the king, and of his counselors, and of all the king's mighty princes. So I was strengthened by the hand of Yahweh my God which was on me, and I gathered the chiefs of Israel to go up with me.
