1 Now these are the chiefs of the fathers' houses, and the genealogies of those who came up with me from Babylon during the reign of king Artaxerxes. 
2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush. 
3 Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah. And there were one hundred and fifty males with him. 
4 Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah. And there were two hundred males with him. 
5 Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel. And there were three hundred males with him. 
6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan. And there were fifty males with him. 
7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah. And there were seventy males with him. 
8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael. And there were eighty males with him. 
9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel. And there were two hundred and eighteen males with him. 
10 Of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah. And there were one hundred and sixty males with him. 
11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai. And there were twenty eight males with him. 
12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan. And there were one hundred and ten males with him. 
13 And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are Eliphelet, and Jeiel, and Shemaiah. And there were sixty males with them.
14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud. And there were seventy males with them. 
15 And I gathered them together at the river that flows toward Ahava, and we encamped there three days. Then I turned my attention to the people and to the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi. 
16 Therefore I sent for the chiefs, namely Eliezer, and Ariel, and Shemaiah, and Elnathan, and Jarib, and Elnathan, and Nathan, and Zechariah, and Meshullam. And also Joiarib and Elnathan who were men of understanding. 
17 And I sent them with a command to Iddo the chief who was living in Casiphia. And I told them what they should say to Iddo and to his brothers the Nethinim who were in Casiphia, in order to cause the servants of the house of our God to come to us. 
18 And according to the good hand of our God that was on us, they brought us Sherebiah who was a wise man of the sons of Mahli the son of Levi the son of Israel [Jacob]. And there were his sons and his brothers with him, eighteen men. 
19 And they also brought us Hashabiah. And there were with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, and his brothers and their sons, twenty men. 
20 And of the Nethinim [who are the descendants of those] whom David and the princes [leaders] had appointed to help the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinim. All their names were written on a list. 
21 And there at the river near Ahava, I proclaimed a fasting in order to humble ourselves before our God and obtain from him a safe journey for us, and for our children, and for all that we had. 
22 For I had been ashamed to ask the king of Persia for foot soldiers and horsemen to protect us from the enemy in the way, because we had said to the king: The hand of our God provide an adequate assistance to all those who seek him, but his power and his wrath are on all those who forsake him. 
23 Therefore we fasted and besought our God regarding this probable difficulty, and we entreated him greatly. 
24 Then I did set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, namely Sherebiah and Hashabiah and ten of their brothers. 
25 And I weighed before them the silver, and the gold, and the utensils, namely all the offerings that had been given for the house of our God by the king of Persia, and by his counselors, and by all the Israelites who had been found. 
26 And I gave into their hands six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and one hundred talents of silver utensils, and one hundred talents of gold. 
27 And twenty bowls of gold worth one thousand darics, and two utensils of shining brass which were as precious as gold. 
28 Then I said to them: You are holy to Yahweh, and these utensils are dedicated, and this silver and this gold are a freewill offering to Yahweh the God of your fathers. 
29 Be vigilant and keep them until you weigh them in the chambers of the house of Yahweh, before the chief priests and the Levites, and before the chiefs of the fathers' houses of Israel at Jerusalem. 
30 So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver, and of the gold, and of the utensils, in order to bring them in the house of our God at Jerusalem. 
31 Then we departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month, to go to Jerusalem. And the hand of our God was on us, and he save us from the hand of the enemy namely all those who ambushed us in the way. 
32 And we came to Jerusalem, and rested there three days. 
33 And on the fourth day we weighed the silver in the house of our God, and the gold and the utensils, and gave them to Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest. And he was with Eleazar the son of Phinehas, and with the Levites Jozabad the son of Jeshua and Noadiah the son of Binnui. 
34 When all was verified, both by numbers and by weights, they wrote down the total weight at the same time. 
35 And the children of the captivity who had returned from the exile offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel, more precisely twelve bullocks for all Israel, and ninety six rams, and seventy seven lambs, and also twelve male goats for a sin offering. All these were burnt offerings to Yahweh. 
36 And we had given the orders of the king of Persia to the officers of the king of Persia and to his governors on this side of the river Euphrates. And all these leaders assisted the people for the service of the house of God.
