1 Then the prophet Haggai and the prophet Zechariah the son [grandson] of Iddo prophesied in the name of the God of Israel to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem. 
2 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak arose and began to build the house of God in Jerusalem. And the prophets of God were with them to help them. 
3 And at the same time, Tattenai who was governor on this side of the river Euphrates, and Shethar-bozenai, and their colleagues, they came and spoke to the Jews thus: Who has given you the authorization to build this house, and to raise these walls [around the place of the house for the courtyards]. 
4 And they spoke again to the Jews and said: What are the names of the men who oversee this building. 
5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and the work continued while a report was sent to Darius and until a letter was received concerning this matter. 
6 So Tattenai the governor on this side of the river Euphrates, and Shethar-bozenai, and their colleagues from Apharsac, they sent a letter to king Darius. 
7 They sent him a letter which was written thus: To king Darius, Greetings. 
8 Let it be known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God. It is being built with great stones, and timber is laid on the walls. The work is done quickly and successfully in their hands. 
9 And we questioned the elders and spoke to them thus: Who has given you the authorization to build this house, and to raise these walls [around the place of the house for the courtyards]. 
10 And we also asked them their names so that you may identify them, and we have put in writing the names of the men who are their rulers. 
11 And here is the answer that they gave us: We are the servants of the God of the heaven and the earth, and are rebuilding the house that had been built many years ago. For a great king of Israel had built and completed it. 
12 But after our fathers had provoked the wrath of the God of heaven, he gave them into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon the Chaldean who destroyed this house and carried the people away into Babylon. 
13 But in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, king Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God. 
14 And concerning the utensils of gold and silver that were in the house of God in Jerusalem, and that king Nebuchadnezzar had taken and carried to the temple of Babylon, king Cyrus took those things in the temple of Babylon and gave them to a man called Sheshbazzar whom he had made chief [among the people who were returning from the captivity]. 
15 And king Cyrus said to him: Take these utensils and bring them with you, and you will place them in the temple that will be built in Jerusalem. Let the house of God be rebuilt on the place where it was. 
16 And the same Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundation of the house of God which is in Jerusalem, and it has been under construction since that time until now, and it is not finished. 
17 Now therefore, if it seems good to the king, let there be a search in the treasure-house of the king in Babylon in order to see if a decree had been made by king Cyrus for the construction of this house of God in Jerusalem. And may the king make known to us his will concerning this matter.
