1 Then king Darius gave an order to make a search in the house of the archives where the treasures were stored in Babylon. 
2 And they found a parchment in a coffer, in the palace that is in the province of Media, and the following thing was written on it. 
3 In the first year of king Cyrus, king Cyrus made a decree concerning the house of God in Jerusalem and it was saying: Let the house be rebuilt, namely the place for offerings of sacrifices, and let its foundation be strongly laid. Its height will be sixty [thirty] cubits, and its width sixty cubits [including its rooms at its sides]. 
4 There will be three rows of great hewn stones and one row of timber. The expenses will be paid out of the king's treasury. 
5 And concerning the gold and silver utensils of the house of God, those things that Nebuchadnezzar took away from the temple in Jerusalem and carried to Babylon, they will be restored to the temple in Jerusalem at their places. They will be put in the house of God. 
6 Now therefore [said king Darius], I command the following thing to Tattenai the governor beyond the river Euphrates, and to Shethar-bozenai, and to their colleagues from Apharsac who live beyond the river: Stay away from this place. 
7 Let the work that is being done for this house of God continue. Let the chief of the Jews and the elders of the Jews rebuild this house of God in its place where it was. 
8 And I make this decree concerning what you are to do for these elders of the Jews, for the building of this house of God: The expenses will be taken from the king's goods, namely from the tribute of the area beyond the river Euphrates. And thus these men will receive what is necessary so that there may be no interruption in their work. 
9 And the things needed for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven will be given to the priests of Jerusalem day by day without failure. Whether it is young bullocks, or rams, or lambs, or wheat, or salt, or wine, or oil. 
10 And thus they may offer sacrifices of a pleasant smell to the God of heaven, and pray for the life of the king and of his sons. 
11 And this is the commandment that I give concerning whoever transgresses this word: A timber will be pulled out of his house, and he will be hanged on it, and his house will be reduced to a heap of rubbish because of this. 
12 May the God who has caused his name to dwell in that place overthrow all kings and peoples who will put forth their hand to deteriorate and to destroy this house of God which is in Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree, let it be performed promptly. 
13 Then Tattenai the governor on this side of the river Euphrates, and Shethar-bozenai, and their colleagues, they did promptly according to the commandment which king Darius had sent them. 
14 So the elders of the Jews built successfully, being encouraged by the words of Haggai the prophet and of Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they built and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and of Darius, and of Artaxerxes king of Persia [Artaxerxes being a title, and this king lived before Darius]. 
15 And the house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of king Darius. 
16 And the children of Israel celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy. There were the priests, and the Levites, and the remaining of the children of the captivity. 
17 And they offered at the dedication of this house of God one hundred bullocks, and two hundred rams, and four hundred lambs. And they also offered twelve male goats for a sin offering for all Israel, according to the number of the tribes of Israel. 
18 And they appointed the priests according to their order, and the Levites according to their divisions, for the service of [the house of] God in Jerusalem, as it is written in the book of Moses. 
19 And the children of the captivity kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
20 For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves, and all of them were clean. And the Levites killed the [victims of the] passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brothers the priests, and for themselves. 
21 So the children of Israel who had returned from the captivity ate the passover. They ate it with all the inhabitants of the land who had joined them in order to turn away from their sinful way of life and to seek Yahweh the God of Israel. 
22 And they kept the feast of unleavened bread for seven days with joy. For Yahweh had made them glad by causing the king of Persia to help them in the work of the house of God, namely the God of Israel.
