1 But the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple for Yahweh the God of Israel. 
2 And they came to Zerubbabel and to the chiefs of the fathers' houses, and said: We will build with you because we seek your God as you do, and we have been sacrificing to him since the time of Esar-Haddon king of Assyria who brought us here. 
3 But Zerubabbel, and Jeshua, and the other chiefs of the fathers' houses of Israel, they replied: The construction of the house of our God is not your responsibility but ours. We will build it alone for Yahweh the God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us. 
4 Therefore the people of the land troubled the people of Judah, and intimidated them to prevent them from building. 
5 And they hired officers among the rulers of the land against the men of Judah, in order to prevent them from building. And it was so during all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, and until the reign of Darius king of Persia. 
6 And during the reign of Ahasuerus [Ahasuerus being a title that was held by other Persian kings who lived long after this one], at the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem [namely against those who had come from the captivity]. 
7 And in the days of Artaxerxes [Artaxerxes being a title, and this king lived before Darius], they wrote another letter to Artaxerxes king of Persia. And the letter had been designed in the Syrian tongue and was written in the Syrian characters. Those who wrote it were Bishlam, and Mithredath, and Tabeel, and the remaining of their companions. 
8 So Rehum the governor and Shimshai the scribe wrote to king Artaxerxes the following letter concerning Jerusalem. 
9 From Rehum the governor, and Shimshai the scribe, and their other colleagues. And the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the Dehavites, and the Elamites. 
10 And the other peoples whom the great and noble Osnappar brought over and established in the city of Samaria and in other places on this side of the river Euphrates. 
11 This is the copy of the letter sent to king Artaxerxes: Your servants the men who live beyond the river Euphrates salute you. 
12 Let it be known to the king that the Jews who had come up from you to us are now in Jerusalem, the rebellious and wicked city. And they have laid the foundations of the walls [of the house of their God], and have joined the foundations. 
13 Let it be known to the king that if this city and its walls are rebuilt, then they will pay neither tribute, nor tax, nor customs fees. And thus the treasuries of the king will suffer from it. 
14 Now we have duties toward the king, and we do not wish to witness the king's dishonor. Therefore we want to inform the king of this matter.
15 Let there be a search in the book of the chronicles of your fathers, and thus you will find and see in the book of the chronicles that this city is a rebellious city which has been hurtful to kings and provinces. They have been instigating seditions there since ancient times, and that is why the city was destroyed.
16 Therefore we certify to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are completed, then you will no longer have possession on this side of the river. 
17 Then the king sent the following answer: To Rehum the governor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to their other colleagues who dwelt in Samaria and in other places beyond the river Euphrates. Greetings. 
18 The letter that you sent us has been read entirely before me. 
19 And I have commanded to do a search, and we found that this city has made insurrections against kings from ancient times, and that rebellions and seditions were made there. 
20 There had been powerful kings in Jerusalem, and they had ruled over all the lands beyond the river Euphrates, and the peoples paid them tributes, and tax, and customs fees. 
21 Now therefore make a decree to stop the work of those men. And the city will not be rebuilt without my permission.
22 Take care not to fail in this obligation, for why should the damage increase so as to hurt the king. 
23 And as soon as the copy of the letter from king Artaxerxes had been read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their colleagues, they hurriedly went to Jerusalem to the Jews and caused them to cease their work by force and power. 
24 So the work of the house of God ceased in Jerusalem, and things remained that way until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia.
