1 While Ezra was praying thus and confessing, and weeping and bowing down before the house of God, a crowd of the children of Israel gathered around him. There were men and women and children, because some of the people were weeping bitterly. 
2 Then Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons [descendants] of Elam, said to Ezra: We have transgressed against our God by marrying foreign women of the peoples of the land. But Israel is not without hope concerning this thing. 
3 Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God, to send away all these wives and their children according to the counsel of my lord [Ezra] and of those who tremble at the commandments of our God. And let it be done according to the law [given by Moses]. 
4 Arise because this matter is yours [you will supervise the resolution of this problem]. We are with you, therefore be of a good courage and do it. 
5 Then Ezra arose and caused the chiefs of the priests, and of the Levites, and of all Israel, to swear that they will do according to this word. And they swore. 
6 Then Ezra departed from before the house of God and went into the private room of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib. And when he entered, he did not eat bread and did not drink water. For he mourned because of the transgression of the children of the captivity. 
7 And they made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem in order to assemble all the children of the captivity at Jerusalem. 
8 And it was specified that, according the counsel of the princes and the elders, whoever did not come within three days will have all his goods confiscated and he himself should be excluded from the assembly of the children of the captivity. 
9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin assembled at Jerusalem within three days. It was on the twentieth day of the ninth month. And all the people stood in the street of the house of God, and they were trembling because of this matter and because of the rain. 
10 And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them: You have sinned by marrying those foreign women. You have made Israel guilty of a great transgression. 
11 Now therefore give praise to Yahweh the God of your fathers, and do his will. Separate yourselves from the peoples who are living in the land, and from the foreign wives. 
12 Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice by saying: We will do according to the words that you have spoken to us. 
13 But the people are many and the weather is rainy, therefore it is hard to continue to stay outside. And it takes not just one day or two to accomplish what we have decided, but much more because there are many among us who have offended in this matter. 
14 Let our leaders be appointed for all the assembly. And all those of our cities who have taken foreign wives will come to these leaders at appointed times, with the elders and judges of every city, until the fierce anger of our God turns away from us concerning this matter. 
15 They then appointed Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahziah the son of Tikvah for this matter, and also Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levites to help them. 
16 And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest, with certain chiefs of the fathers' houses, according to the fathers' houses of the people of the assembly, and all of them by their names, were set apart. And they sat down in the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter. 
17 And they finished the trial of all men who had married foreign women on the first day of the first month. 
18 And there were men who had married foreign women among the sons of the priests. Of the sons [descendants] of Jeshua, there was the son of Jozadak, and of his brothers there were Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah. 
19 And they swore with their hands to put away their wives, and those who were guilty offered a ram for their transgression. 
20 And of the sons of Immer, Hanani and Zebadiah. 
21 And of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah. 
22 And of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, and Maaseiah, and Ishmael, and Nethanel, and Jozabad, and Elasah. 
23 And of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah who is also called Kelita, and Pethahiah, and Judah, and Eliezer. 
24 And of the singers, Eliashib. And of the gatekeepers: Shallum, and Telem, and Uri. 
25 And now ordinary men of Israel. Of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah. 
26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, and Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah. 
27 And of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, and Eliashib, and Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza. 
28 And of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, and Hananiah, and Zabbai, and Athlai. 
29 And of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, and Malluch, and Adaiah, and Jashub, and Sheal, and Jeremoth. 
30 And of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, and Chelal, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattaniah, and Bezalel, and Binnui, and Manasseh. 
31 And of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, and Isshijah, and Malchijah, and Shemaiah, and Shimeon. 
32 And Benjamin, and Malluch, and Shemariah. 
33 And of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, and Mattattah, and Zabad, and Eliphelet, and Jeremai, and Manasseh, and Shimei. 
34 Of the sons [descendants] of Bani: Maadai, and Amram, and Uel. 
35 And Benaiah, and Bedeiah, and Cheluhi. 
36 And Vaniah, and Meremoth, an Eliashib. 
37 And Mattaniah, and Mattenai, and Jaasu. 
38 And Bani, and Binnui, and Shimei. 
39 And Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah. 
40 And Machnadebai, and Shashai, and Sharai. 
41 And Azarel, and Shelemiah, and Shemariah. 
42 And Shallum, and Amariah, and Joseph. 
43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, and Mattithiah, and Zabad, and Zebina, and Iddo, and Joel, and Benaiah. 
44 All those men had married foreign women, and a part of those women had children.
