1 Brothers, if a man among you is found to have done something wrong, then you who are spiritual should straighten him with a spirit of gentleness. And take heed to yourself while doing such a thing, lest you also be tempted to act unwisely. 
2 Bear one another’s burdens, and thus you will fulfill the law of Christ. 
3 For if anyone thinks that he is something, then he deceives himself. For such a person is nothing [since the Spirit is everything that is to say, the spirit of Christ]. 
4 Let each person examine his own works, and then he will have reasons to glory in himself alone, and not in comparison with others. 
5 For each person will bear his own burden. 
6 Let him to whom the word is taught make known all his goods to the one who teaches it. 
7 Do not be deceived, one cannot mock God with impunity. Everything that a man sows, he will also reap. 
8 He who sows for his flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, and he who sows for the Spirit will reap everlasting life from the Spirit. 
9 So let us not be weary in well-doing. For we will reap in due time, if we do not stop acting properly. 
10 So then, while we have opportunity, let us do good toward all men, and especially toward those who are our brothers in the faith. 
11 See how I have written you a great letter with my own hand. [That is to say, I know that this letter that I have written with my own hand is not easy to understand.]
12 All those who compel you to be circumcised simply desire to please themselves according to the flesh, so as not to be persecuted [by the Jews] for the cross of Christ. 
13 For even the circumcised do not practice the law [that is to say, the Jews do not practice everything that is written in the law of Moses and everything that is written in the book of Ezekiel]. But they want you to be circumcised, so that they may glory in your flesh. 
14 As far as I am concerned, far be it from me to glory in anything other than the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. From my point of view, the world has been crucified through the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, and I have been crucified for the world through that same cross. 
15 For it is nothing to be circumcised or uncircumcised [after the resurrection of Jesus Christ]. What is something is to be a new creature. 
16 Peace and mercy to all those who follow this rule, and to the Israel of God. 
17 Let no one trouble me anymore [in the churches that I have created]. For I bear on my body the marks of the Lord Jesus [that is to say, there are on my body the traces of the sufferings that I undergone because of my love for Jesus.] 
18 Brothers, may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirits. Amen.
