1 Fourteen years later, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus also with me. 
2 And I went up there because of a revelation. And I presented to them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, and I presented it privately to those who were the leaders, lest I was running or had run in vain. [That is to say, if I had not sought to speak to the leaders, then it could have remained as a secret since the gospel that I teach to the Gentiles is not approved by all the Jews. For I affirm that circumcision is not necessary. So I spoke to the leaders so that all of them would have an accurate understanding of the message that God has asked me to teach to the Gentiles. Now it is said in the book of Acts that Paul went to Jerusalem with Barnabas because there had been a discussion in Antioch with the Jews, concerning the circumcision of the Gentiles who had believed in Jesus. It is said in that book that it was the disciples of Jesus at Antioch who decided that Paul and Barnabas should go to Jerusalem with certain other people to present the discussion to the apostles who had walked near Jesus, and here Paul specifies that his will to go to Jerusalem originally came from a revelation of the Lord and therefore he went to Jerusalem solely with the intention of edifying others.] 
3 But not even Titus who was with me, and who was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. [That is to say, no one forced me to circumcise the Greek Titus who was with me at that time. Now Paul has said that they went to Jerusalem to meet those who are disciples of Jesus among the Jews, but he has not said that they went to the area of the temple of the Jews.] 
4 We went to Jerusalem at that time because of the false brothers who had secretly sneaked in among us in order to spy on the freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, with the intention of enslaving us. 
5 We did not yield to them for a single moment, and we resisted their demands so that the truth of the gospel might be maintained among you. 
6 And those who were considered to be leaders, whatever they may have been in the past [that is to say, even though they walked alongside our Lord while he was alive in the flesh], it makes no difference to me because God does not have respect for the face of a person. Those who were considered to be leaders added nothing to me. [That is to say, they could not add anything to the knowledge that I had received through revelation.] 
7 On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel for the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel for the circumcised. [Now Peter had thought for some time that he should preach the knowledge of Jesus only to the Jews, and it was when he had been sent into the house of Cornelius that he discovered that God does not make a difference between Jews and non-Jews.] 
8 For he who had worked in Peter to make him an apostle to the circumcised, had also worked in me to make me an apostle to the Gentiles. 
9 And when James and Cephas and John, who were considered to be pillars, acknowledged the grace that had been given to me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship, so that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. 
10 They only asked us to remember the poor, a thing that I took great care to do. 
11 And when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he acted in a reprehensible manner. 
12 Indeed, before the arrival of some people sent by James, Peter was eating with the Gentiles. But when they had come, he withdrew and separated himself from those Gentiles, for fear of those who were circumcised [and who are not among the disciples of Jesus]. 
13 And other Jews who are among the disciples of Jesus also joined him in this hypocrisy, insomuch that even Barnabas participated in their hypocrisy.
14 And when I saw that they were not walking uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in the presence of all: If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews [regarding the fact of not being ready to take responsibility for the deeds that you choose to undertake], then why do you desire to see the conversion of the Gentiles to the Christian faith which we consider to be the perfection of the Jewish religion that allowed the conversions of foreigners. 
15 We have been educated in the Jewish religion, and therefore we do not act like the many sinners who live among the Gentiles. [Now this does not mean that all the Gentiles are sinners, but simply that there are many sinners among the Gentiles.] 
16 Nevertheless, having learned that a person is not justified by the works of the law [given to Moses] but by faith in Jesus Christ, we too have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law [given to Moses]. For no one will be justified by the works of the law given by Moses. [That is to say, the law given by Moses required Jews not to have an emotional connection with those who have not converted to the Jewish religion, since that law authorizes the conversion of foreigners and requires Jews to constantly seek to separate themselves from all those who have strange practices, but the law revealed by Jesus Christ has abolished many of the commandments given by Moses while perfecting certain others of those commandments. We now know that God is not interested in genealogy, and that he only wants to know why a person does something and not what that person does. Now we know that we should not have an emotional connection with those who do not believe in Jesus.] 
17 But while we seek to be made righteous by Christ, if we ourselves are found to be sinners, then can this imply that Christ tolerates sin. By no means. [That is to say, do the personal initiatives of those who claim to be disciples of Jesus have an influence on the reputation that must be attributed to Jesus.] 
18 For if I rebuild the things that I have destroyed, then I make myself a transgressor. 
19 For it is through the law [given to Moses] that I have died toward the law [given to Moses], so that I may live for God. [That is to say, it is the Jewish holy scriptures that have allowed me to understand how to put into practice the holy commandment given by Jesus Christ.]  
20 For I have been crucified with Christ [at the moment when I have accepted to live according to the faith that has been clearly explained to me]. And if I live now in the flesh, then it is no longer I who live but it is Christ who lives in me. For regarding the life that I now live in the flesh, I live it through the faith that I have in the Son of God who has loved me and has given himself for me. 
21 I do not reject the grace of God. For if righteousness can be attained by the practice of the law given to Moses, then Christ died in vain.
