1 Now I say the following thing: as long as the heir is a child, he differs in no way from a slave, although he is the master of everything. 
2 But he is under tutours and administrators, until the time set by the father. 
3 In the same way, when we were children, we were in bondage under the rudiments of the world. [That is to say, the children of Israel were carrying the legacy of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, and they received an educational law through Moses.]
4 But when the time was fulfilled, God sent his Son, born of woman and born under the law given by Moses. 
5 So that he may redeem those who were under the law, and so that anyone may receive the adoption to become his children. 
6 And with the aim of making us his children, God has sent the spirit of his Son into our hearts, and it cries out in us: Abba, Father. 
7 So you are no longer a slave of the primitive spirits of the world, but a son or a daughter [if you have truly understood and accepted the message of Jesus Christ]. And if you are now a son or a daughter, then you are also a heir of God through Christ. 
8 Formerly, when you did not know God, you were serving some spirits who are not gods by their nature. [Now Paul speaks of many people belonging to the community of Galatians to whom he is sending this letter, because in a global way this community did not live with the desire to please any God of justice who by nature does not desire that his disciples offend anyone without having a publicly acceptable justification, namely a justification that may be acceptable even in the eyes of those who do not believe in any god.] 
9 And now that you have known God, or rather you have become known by God [namely by the holy spirit of God], how do you return to those weak and poor rudiments to which you again want to enslave yourself. [That is to say, after you have been taught the accurate knowledge of the true God, and some of you have accepted it, why do some others of you want to turn away from the simplicity of the message that is to be remembered. Why does the organization of your church, which aims to make new members and thus create harmony in the world, have to tolerate that some people teach another message among you.] 
10 You observe days, and months, and seasons, and years. 
11 I fear to have worked among you in vain. 
12 Be like me, because I too am like you. Brothers, I beseech you. You had been very good toward me in in the past. 
13 You know how it was through an infirmity of the flesh that I preached the gospel to you at the first time. 
14 And being tested by my flesh, you showed neither contempt nor disgust towards me. On the contrary, you received me as an angel of God, as Jesus Christ.
15 What was the cause of your happiness. For I testify to you that, if it had been possible, then you would have plucked out your own eyes and given them to me. 
16 Have I become your enemy by telling you the truth. 
17 Their zeal for you is not pure. For they want to separate you from us, so that you may be zealous for them. [Now Paul says this thing about those who are teaching among the Galatians a message different from the simplicity of the gospel of Christ.] 
18 It is beautiful to have zeal for what is good at all times, and not only when I am present among you. 
19 My little children, for whom I again experience the pains of childbirth [like those felt by some women], until Christ is formed in you. 
20 I would like to be with you now and change my tone of voice. For I am worried about you. 
21 Tell me, you who want to be under the law [namely the law of Moses that we have used to teach you the knowledge of Christ], do you not hear the law. 
22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a handmaid and one by a freewoman. [Now they are the first two sons of Abraham, since long after that he took another woman with whom he had other sons.] 
23 But the son of the handmaid was born according to the flesh, and the son of the freewoman was born through a promise. 
24 These things are allegorical, and these two women are like the two agreements between God and his people. One agreement is the law that God gave through Moses at mount Sinai. The woman named Hagar, who was the handmaid of Abraham, lived like those who wish to be subject to that agreement in these days. For those persons are like slaves who do not produce fruit for themselves, while the message of the gospel of Christ announces to them that they can now produce fruit for themselves. 
25 So Hagar is like mount Sinai in Arabia, and it corresponds to present-day Jerusalem which is in bondage with its children. For there are many of the Jews who continue to follow the law given to Moses, because the temple of God built in Jerusalem for this law has not yet been destroyed. 
26 But the heavenly Jerusalem that is above is our mother, and it bears free children. [That is to say, Jesus Christ was raised from the dead and is now in heaven, and we who are his disciples and thus his children are free like the freewoman of Abraham.] 
27 For it is written: Rejoice, O barren one, you who have not borne children. Be comforted and be glad, you who have not known the pains of childbirth. For the children of the woman who is desolate [and who fears God] will be more numerous than the children of the woman who is living with her husband. [Now this was written by the prophet Isaiah to make it understood that any solitary person who fears God can have many spiritual children, and in an allegorical way it describes Sarah the first wife of Abraham. For Sarah was barren and feared God, and God did not only give her spiritual children but also a child according to the flesh who was Isaac.] 
28 And now, brothers, we are like Isaac, we are children of the promise. [That is to say, it is not the law given by Moses that is the fulfillment of the promise made to Abraham, but it is us, the disciples of Jesus Christ, who are the fulfillment of that promise. We are the spiritual children of Jesus Christ and also the spiritual children of Abraham.] 
29 And as then he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so it is even now. [That is to say, in the same way that Ishmael the son of Hagar persecuted Isaac the son of Sarah, so we who are disciples of Jesus are persecuted by the Jews who refuse to accept that Jesus is the Christ foretold in their scriptures. They are persecuting us because the temple that has been built in Jerusalem to practice the law of Moses has not yet been destroyed.] 
30 But what does scripture say. It is written: Drive out the handmaid and her son. For the son of the handmaid will not inherit with the son of the freewoman. [Now Paul is predicting the destruction of the Jewish temple.]
31 Therefore, brothers, we are not children of a handmaid, but of a freewoman. [That is to say, we are the free children of Jesus Christ, and not the enslaved children of the law given by Moses.]
