1 O foolish Galatians. Who has bewitched you to turn you away from understanding the faith. For we had clearly explained to you that faith consists solely in understanding that Jesus Christ has been crucified. [That is to say, Jesus has been crucified because of the commandments given by Moses, and he has been raised from the dead so that we may know that he did nothing wrong in the sight of God.] 
2 I only want you to answer the following question: Had you received the Spirit by the works of the law, or by listening and understanding the preaching of faith. [That is to say, it is not by the practice of the commandments of the law given to Moses that many people in your community had received the gifts of the Holy Spirit when we arrived in your region to announce the gospel to you. But that was some time ago, and now there are new people among you who disturb those who want to become disciples in your community.] 
3 Are you so foolish. Having begun by the Spirit, are you now trying to finish by the flesh. [Now Paul is saying this thing to the Galatians as a whole, and not to any particular disciple, since different people within their church may have different points of view.] 
4 Have you suffered so many things in vain. If it really was in vain. [That is to say, will the church that started there disappear completely. Will this church not leave behind an admirable legacy.] 
5 The one who gives you the Spirit and works miracles among you, does he do it by your practice of the law given to Moses or by your listening and understanding of the preaching of faith. [That is to say, observe those among you who receive certain gifts, and ask yourselves what their motivations are in everything that they do. Do you think that their primary concern is to put into practice the commandments of the law of Moses.] 
6 Just as Abraham trusted God, and God recognized him as a righteous person for this reason. 
7 So you should understand that it is those who walk by faith who are children of Abraham. [That is to say, they are the children of Abraham because their faith in the teaching of Jesus Christ makes them imitate the behavior of Abraham who is himself included in the genealogy of knowledge taught by Jesus Christ. Now Abraham was not under all the commandments given by Moses to the children of Jacob, since that law contains particularities such as the fact that a father can henceforth transmit an inheritance to his daughter according to the judgment given after the problem exposed by the five daughters of Zelophehad, or such as the fact that the children of Israel must separate into twelve distinct tribes according to the number of the children of Jacob who received the name Israel and who is himself one of the grandchildren of Abraham. Paul is therefore explaining to us that God can recognize that a person is righteous even if that person does not observe all the commandments given to Moses, nor the circumcision received by Abraham. For God recognized that Abraham is a righteous person when Abraham did not have children yet, and it was long after that Abraham received the covenant of circumcision which requires that all male descendants of his posterity to be circumcised at eight days old. And on the same day that Abraham received this covenant, he circumcised himself and he circumcised his son Ishmael who was thirteen years old. And the birth of Isaac, the son of the covenant, occurred more than a year later, and Abraham circumcised Isaac at eight days old in accordance with the command of the covenant that he had received. And the sons of Isaac were twin brothers, Esau and Jacob, but one Jacob is the only one to have received the promises made to Abraham and to Isaac in accordance with the following word that was spoken by the prophet Malachi: Is not Esau the brother of Jacob, says the Lord. And nevertheless I have loved Jacob, and I have hated Esau. I made his mountains desolate, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.] 
8 And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, announced the following good news to Abraham in advance: All the nations will be blessed in you. 
9 Therefore it is those who walk by faith [in Jesus Christ] who are blessed through Abraham who himself had a great faith. [Now Abraham had the faith that it was sufficient for him to always possess a publicly acceptable justification for everything that he was doing, and consequently, what he was doing each time depended solely on the knowledge that he possessed in real time. But Abraham did not know the exact definition of the concept of righteousness which has been revealed by Jesus Christ, and that is why Abraham used to build altars to honor God.] 
10 For all those who seek to attain righteousness by practicing the law given to Moses are under a curse. For it is written in that law: Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things that are written in the book of the law, to do them. [Now Paul expresses himself thus because the temple of the Jews, built to practice the law given by Moses, is always present in Jerusalem. This temple which had been a holy place approved by God, will be destroyed a few years after the death of Paul, and those who desire to be justified by the practice of the law given by Moses after that event will not simply be under a curse but will be fools and comedians.] 
11 And now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the will to practice all the commandments of the law given to Moses, since it is written: The righteous will live by faith. [Now Paul wants to explain that if a person should be righteous before God by practicing the commandments of the law that Moses gave to the children of Jacob, then none of the people who do not belong to the tribes of Israel could be righteous without converting to the Jewish religion which explicitly allows the conversion of foreigners. And yet it is evident that there were people who were righteous before God and who did not practice the Jewish religion, such as Noah and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, or such as Job who was not a descendant of Abraham, or such as Balaam who was a prophet during the days of Moses. Balaam did not belong to the tribes of Israel, and he was not perfect like every normal human being, since even Moses sinned against God in two different ways: when he failed to circumcise his son on the eighth day after birth while he was returning to the land of Egypt with his wife Zipporah, and when he failed to sanctify God at the waters of Meribah, at Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin, even though a similar event had already occurred at Rephidim in the first three months of the journey of the children of Israel from the land of Egypt.] 
12 And having faith cannot consist of trying to practice all the commandments of the law given to Moses, since [there are righteous persons outside the Jewish religion and] it is written in that law: The one who does these things will live by them. [Now is it written in the law given by Moses: You will keep my statutes and my judgments. And if a man do them then he will live by them. I am the Lord.]
13 And now, Christ has redeemed us [who are Jewish] from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written: Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. [That is to say, now we know that this law itself is cursed because it has condemned Jesus who was righteous, and we know that Jesus was righteous because he has been raised from the dead.] 
14 And so the blessing of Abraham has been fulfilled for the Gentiles in Jesus Christ, so that we may receive by faith the promised Spirit. 
15 Brothers, the following thing is true even in the customs of men: A legally binding agreement, once ratified, cannot be disannulled or modified by anyone.
16 And now, the promises were made to Abraham and to his seed. It does not say, 'and to his seeds', as if there were many. It says, 'and to your seed', referring to one seed who is Christ. [That is to say, not all of the children of Abraham according to the flesh inherited the promise, but only one, namely Isaac. And not all of the children of Isaac according to the flesh inherited the promise, but only one, namely Jacob who was the twin brother of Esau. And not all of the descendants of Jacob according to the flesh inherited the promise, since it was said in the wilderness that the people were to wander for forty years until the death of all the men who were old enough when they left the land of Egypt, in order to punish them for their many acts of disobedience, and that only their children would reach the promised land. There are only two men who were exceptions among those who were sufficiently old at the time when the people left Egypt, among all the men who did not belong to the tribe of the Levites, since the members of this tribe only had to do the religious service and not participate in the different wars. These two men were Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua the son of Nun, and they were able to reach the promised land and settle there because they had wanted to have blind trust in God who had already done several miracles before their eyes to prove that he was God, and who had given an order that the other men of war did not want to put into practice. Thus the promise made to Abraham was not transmitted to all those who were his descendants according to the flesh, but only through those who imitated his faith, and consequently the seed of Abraham cannot be formed of twelve distinct tribes, and it is Christ who gave the correct definition of faith by making known the exact definition of the concept of righteousness based on the legacy of Abraham.] 
17 I say the following thing: The law which came four hundred and thirty years later, cannot annul the covenant previously established by God and thus make the promise void. [That is to say, the transmission of the legacy of Abraham began without the law, concerning his children among whom only one was chosen, and concerning his grandchildren among whom there was a separation of two twin brothers. Therefore this legacy cannot interrupt the transmission by faith a few centuries later to begin a transmission by the law given to Moses. For the law given to Moses contains commandments that were given to solve problems that arose in real time, such as the fact that a father could transmit his inheritance to his daughters if he did not had sons, or the fact that a daughter who received an inheritance from her father was obligated to marry a man belonging to the same tribe as her father.] 
18 For if the inheritance depends on the law, then it no longer depends on the promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise. 
19 Why then has the law been given. It has been added because of transgressions, until the coming of the seed to whom the promise had been made. It has been given through angels, by the hand Moses who has been a mediator. 
20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one. [Now in the Jewish scriptures, if God is the one who causes all things to happen, then his holy spirit is the God of those who are approved, and it is required in the scriptures to call both by the same name. Consequently, here the apostle Paul informs us that Christ is not merely a mediator like Moses but is completely united with God.] 
21 Is the law then against the promises of God. Certainly not. For if there had been a certain law that could have given life [namely the eternal life], then righteousness should have been attained by the law. [That is to say, if it were possible to attain righteousness by a multitude of commandments and not through faith, then such a law composed of those commandments would have been given.] 
22 Therefore the behaviors of the characters described in the Jewish scriptures always contains some form of sin, and the promise is now given by faith in Jesus Christ to those who believe. 
23 Before faith came, we [the Jews] were kept under the law, as in a prison, until the future faith was revealed. 
24 So the law has been our tutor to bring us to Christ, so that we may be made righteous by faith. 
25 And now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. 
26 For you are all children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. 
27 For all of you who have been baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. 
28 Here there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. 
29 And if you belong to Christ, then you are the seed of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.
