1 It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Therefore be unwavering, and do not allow yourselves to be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. 
2 And behold, I Paul, I tell you that if you receive circumcision, then it will not give you any advantage in your practice of the faith in Christ. 
3 And I protest again against any man who is circumcised that this obligate him in any way to practice the entire law given by Moses. [Now Paul is saying that the circumcision of a man in his flesh is not a sign that obligates him now to observe the sabbath day, this sabbath day being one of the ten commandments that God gave to all the people who left the land of Egypt, a people who were not solely composed of the children of Jacob since there was also a multitude of people of all kinds who left Egypt with them. Now the practice of circumcision is described in the book of Genesis which was written by Moses, and it is said that it was a sign of the covenant that God made with Abraham who is one of the ancestors of Moses.] 
4 You are separated from Christ, you who are trying now to be justified by the practice of the law [given by Moses]. You are rejecting the grace of God. [That is to say, righteousness is not attained through the practice of the law given by Moses, but only through the practice of the law given by Christ.] 
5 As for us, it is by faith and through the spirit of Christ that we hope to attain righteousness [and thus be recognized by God as righteous persons]. 
6 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value, but only faith which works through love. 
7 You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth. 
8 This persuasion does not come from the one who calls you [that is to say, it does not come from the spirit of Christ]. 
9 A little leaven makes the whole dough rise. 
10 I am confident in the Lord that you will not think otherwise [that is to say, the Lord will succeed in strengthening the knowledge of those among you who belong to him]. But the one who is troubling you, whoever he may be, will bear his condemnation. 
11 Brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, then why am I still being persecuted. If I were teaching that circumcision has any value whatsoever, then the offense of the cross would have been removed [and the Jews would not be trying to harm me]. 
12 May they be cut off, those who cause trouble among you. 
13 Brothers, you were called to freedom. But do not use your freedom as an excuse to live according to the flesh, but rather serve one another humbly through love. 
14 For the whole law [given by Moses] is fulfilled by practicing this one commandment: You will love your neighbor as yourself. 
15 But if you bite and devour one another, then be careful lest you be consumed by one another. 
16 So I say the following thing: walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 
17 For the flesh desires what is contrary to the spirit, and the spirit desires what is contrary to the flesh. They are opposed to each other, so that you do not do what you would. [Now, when we say the Spirit, it is the spirit of Christ.] 
18 And if you are led by the Spirit, then you are not under any other divine law. 
19 Now the works of the flesh are obvious: Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. 
20 Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, strife, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, factions that coexist within a same group. 
21 Envy, drunkenness, intrigue, and similar things. I warn you, as I did it before, that those who live in this way will not inherit the kingdom of God.
22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, and joy, and peace, and patience, and kindness, and goodness, and faith. 
23 And gentleness, and self-control. There is no law against such things. 
24 Those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and its desires. 
25 So if we want to live by the Spirit [that is to say, if we want to attain eternal life], then let us also walk by the Spirit. 
26 Let us not become conceited, let us not provoke and envy one another.
