1 Paul, an apostle who has not been established by men and who has not become so through some men, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father who has raised Jesus Christ from the dead. 
2 And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia. 
3 Grace and peace to you from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ.
4 He who has given himself for our sins, to rescue us from the present evil world, according to the will of God and [of God] our Father. 
5 To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
6 I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you in the grace of Christ, and are turning to a different gospel. 
7 Not that there is another gospel, but there are some people who trouble you because they want to pervert the gospel of Christ. 
8 But even if one of us, or an angel from heaven, preach a gospel other than the one that we have preached to you, then let him be accursed. 
9 As we have already said, so now I say again: if anyone preaches to you a gospel other than the one that you have received, then let him be accursed.
10 For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God. Or am I striving to please men. If I were seeking to please men, then I would not be a servant of Christ. 
11 I want you to know, brothers, that the gospel which I have preached to you does not come from the reasonings of men. 
12 For I did not receive it from any man, and I did not develop it by teaching myself, but I have received it by revelation from Jesus Christ. 
13 For you have heard of my former conduct in the religion of the Jews, how I intensely persecuted and ravaged the church of God. 
14 And how I was more advanced in the religion of the Jews than many of my own age in my nation, being extremely zealous for the traditions of my fathers. 
15 But God had set me apart from my mother's womb, and he has called me by his grace when it has pleased him to reveal his Son in me, so that I may preach his Son among the Gentiles. 
16 And immediately, I did not consult with flesh or blood. 
17 And I did not go up to Jerusalem to those who had been apostles before me, but I went into Arabia. Then I returned to Damascus. 
18 And three years later, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and I stayed with him for fifteen days. 
19 But I did not see any of the other apostles, except James the brother of the Lord. 
20 Concerning the things that I am writing to you, behold I declare it before God, I am not lying. 
21 Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
22 And I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which were in Christ. 
23 They had only heard say: The one who formerly persecuted us is now preaching the faith that he once tried to destroy. 
24 And they glorified God because of me.
