1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth. 
2 You will be a source of fear and terror to every animal on the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, to everything that moves on the earth and to all the fish of the sea. They are delivered into your hands. 
3 Everything that moves and has life will serve as food for you. I give you all this like green grass. 
4 But you will not eat flesh with the life in it, which is the blood in it. 
5 Know this also, I will require the blood of your lives. I will require it of every animal, and I will require the life of man from man, from man who is his brother. 
6 If anyone sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. For God made man in his own image. 
7 And you, be fruitful and multiply, spread out on the earth and multiply on it. 
8 And God spoke again to Noah and to his sons with him.
9 And I behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you. 
10 And with all the living creatures that are with you, the birds and the cattle and all the beasts of the earth, with all those who came out of the ark, all the beasts of the earth. 
11 I establish my covenant with you. No more flesh will be exterminated by the waters of the flood and there will be no more flood to destroy the earth. 
12 And God said, This is the sign of the covenant that I establish between me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for all generations. 
13 I have placed my bow in the cloud, and it will serve as a sign of covenant between me and the earth. 
14 When I bring a cloud above the earth, the bow will appear in the clouds. 
15 Then I will remember my covenant between me and you and every living creature of all flesh, and the waters will no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
16 The bow will be in the clouds and I will look upon it, to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. 
17 And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. 
18 The sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem and Ham and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan. 
19 These three were the sons of Noah, and it is their descendants who populated the whole earth. 
20 Noah began to cultivate the land, and planted vines. 
21 And he drank wine, got drunk, and uncovered himself in the middle of his tent. 
22 And Ham, father of Canaan, saw his father's nakedness and he reported it outside to his two brothers. 
23 Then Shem and Japheth took a cloak, put it on their shoulders, and walked backwards and covered their father's nakedness. As their faces were turned away, they did not see the nakedness of their father. 
24 When Noah awoke from his wine, he learned what his youngest son had done to him. 
25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan, let him be the slave of the slaves of his brothers. 
26 And he said again, Blessed be Yahweh the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. 
27 Again, may God extend the possessions of Japheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and may Canaan be his slave. 
28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. 
29 All the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years. Then he died.
