1 And Jacob dwelt in the land of his father's sojournings, in the land of Canaan. 
2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, aged seventeen, shepherded the flock with his brothers. This child was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph reported their bad words to their father. 
3 Israel loved Joseph more than all his other sons, because he begat him in his old age. And he made him a tunic of many colors. 
4 His brothers saw that their father loved him more than all of them, and they hated him. They could not speak to him with friendship. 
5 Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers, and they hated him even more. 
6 He said to them, Please listen to this dream that I had. 
7 We were tying sheaves in the middle of the fields. And lo, my sheaf arose and stood upright. And behold, your sheaves surrounded it and bowed down to it. 
8 And his brothers said to him, Will you reign over us. Will you govern us. And they hated him even more, because of his dreams and because of his words. 
9 He had yet another dream, and he told it to his brothers. He said, I had another dream, and behold, the sun and the moon and eleven stars bowed down before me. 
10 He told his father and his brothers. His father rebuked him and said to him: What is the meaning of this dream that you have seen. Must we come, I and your mother and your brothers, to kneel down and bow ourselves to the ground before you. 
11 And his brothers were envious of him, but his father remembered these things. 
12 And Joseph's brothers went to Shechem to feed their father's flock. 
13 And Israel said to Joseph, Do not your brothers feed the flock in Shechem. Come and I will send you to them. And he answered, Here I am. 
14 Israel said to him, Go now and see whether your brothers are in good health, and whether the flock is in good condition. And you will bring me news. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and Joseph went to Shechem. 
15 A man met him as he was wandering in the fields, and the man questioned him by saying, What are you looking for. 
16 Joseph answered, I am looking for my brothers. Please tell me where they pasture their flock.
17 And the man said, They are gone hence for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brothers, and he found them in Dothan. 
18 And they saw Joseph from afar, and they plotted to put him to death before he was near them. 
19 They said to one another, Here comes the dream maker. 
20 Come now, let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. We will say that a wild beast devoured him, and we will see what will become of his dreams. 
21 And when Reuben heard this, he delivered him out of their hands. For he said, Let us not take his life. 
22 And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit which is in the wilderness, and do not lay your hand on him. Reuben intended to deliver Joseph from their hands in order to return him to his father. 
23 When Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped him of his tunic, the tunic of many colors which he had on him.
24 And they took him and threw him into the pit. This pit was empty, there was no water inside. 
25 And they sat down to eat bread. And when they looked up, they saw a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead. Their camels were loaded with spices and balsam and myrrh, which they carried to Egypt. 
26 Then Judah said to his brothers, What will we gain by killing our brother and hiding his blood. 
27 Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let us not lay our hands on him, for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brothers listened to him. 
28 As the Midianite merchants passed by, they pulled and brought Joseph up out of the pit. And they sold him for twenty shekels of silver to the Ishmaelites, who took him to Egypt. 
29 Ruben returned to the pit and behold, Joseph was no longer in the pit. And he tore his clothes. 
30 And he returned to his brothers and said, The child is no more. And me, where will I go. 
31 Then they took Joseph's tunic, and having killed a goat, they immersed the tunic in the blood. 
32 They sent the tunic of many colors to their father and said, This is what we have found. Recognize whether it is your son's tunic or not. 
33 Jacob recognized it and said, This is my son's tunic, a ferocious beast devoured him, Joseph is surely torn to pieces. 
34 And he tore his clothes, and he put sackcloth on his waist, and he mourned for his son for a long time. 
35 All his sons and daughters came to comfort him, but he did not want to receive any consolation. And he said, It is by weeping that I will go down to my son at the grave. And he cried for his son. 
36 And the Midianites sold Joseph in Egypt to Potiphar, officer of Pharaoh and chief of the guards.
