1 After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he answered, Here I am. 
2 And he said, Take your son, your only son, the one you love, Isaac. And go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains that I will tell you about. 
3 And Abraham got up early in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and took with him two servants and his son Isaac. And he split wood for the burnt offering, and left to go to the place that God had told him about. 
4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place from afar. 
5 And Abraham said to his servants, Stay here with the donkey, and me and the young man we will go that far, and we will worship, and we will return to you. 
6 And Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering, charged it to his son Isaac, and he took the fire and the knife in his hand. And they both walked together. 
7 Then Isaac spoke to Abraham his father by saying, My father. And he answered, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering. 
8 And Abraham replied, My son, God will provide himself with the lamb for the burnt offering. And they both walked together. 
9 And they came to the place that God had told him about, and Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood. And he bonded his son Isaac, and placed him on the altar, on top of the wood. 
10 Then Abraham stretched out his hand, and took the knife to kill his son. 
11 And the angel of Yahweh called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he answered, Here I am. 
12 And he said, Do not put your hand on the child, nor do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have not withheld from me your son, your only son. 
13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram held in a bush by its horns. And Abraham went and took the ram, and offered it as a burnt offering in place of his son. 
14 And Abraham named this place Yahweh-jireh. This is why we say today, In the mountain of the Yahweh it will be provided. 
15 And the angel of Yahweh called Abraham from the heaven a second time. 
16 And said: By myself I swear, word of Yahweh. Because you have done this, and have not withheld your son, your only son. 
17 I will bless you, and multiply your seed like the stars of the sky and like the sand that is on the seashore. And your seed will possess the gate of their enemies. 
18 And all the nations of the earth will be blessed in your seed, because you have obeyed my voice. 
19 And Abraham returned to his servants, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba. For Abraham dwelt in Beersheba. 
20 After these things it was reported to Abraham by saying, Behold Milcah also bore sons to Nahor your brother. 
21 Uz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram. 
22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel. 
23 And Bethuel fathered Rebecca. These are the eight sons that Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 
24 And his concubine, named Reumah, also gave birth to Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.
