1 Jacob continued on his way, and angels of God met him. 
2 When Jacob saw them he said, This is God's camp. And he called the name of this place Mahanaim. 
3 And Jacob sent messengers ahead of him to his brother Esau, in the land of Seir in the territory of Edom. 
4 He commanded them by saying, This is what you will say to my lord Esau. Thus says your servant Jacob, I stayed with Laban and have remained there until now. 
5 And I have oxen, and donkeys, and flocks, and male and female servants. And I have sent and announce it to my lord, to find favor in your sight. 
6 The messengers returned to Jacob and said: We have come to your brother Esau, and he marches to meet you with four hundred men. 
7 Therefore Jacob was very frightened and overcome with anguish. And he divided the people who were with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, he divided all into two camps. 
8 For he said: If Esau comes against one of the camps and defeats it, the camp that remains will be able to save itself. 
9 And Jacob said: Oh God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, Oh Yahweh who said to me, 'Return to your country and your birthplace, and I will do you good'. 
10 I am not worthy of all the graces and all the faithfulness you have shown to your servant. And I have crossed this Jordan with my staff, and now I form two camps. 
11 Deliver me, I pray you, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau. Because I fear that he will come and smite me with the mother and the children. 
12 And you had said: I will do you good and I will make your seed like the sand of the sea, so abundant that it cannot be counted. 
13 And Jacob spent the night there. And took of that which he had with him to make a gift for Esau his brother. 
14 Two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred sheep and twenty rams. 
15 Thirty female camels with their suckling young, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten foals. 
16 He gave them to his servants, flock by flock separately, and he said to his servants: Go ahead of me and put a gap between each herd. 
17 He gave this order to the first: When my brother Esau meets you and asks you, Whose are you, where are you going and who owns this flock before you. 
18 You will answer: From your servant Jacob, it is a gift sent to my lord Esau. And behold, he himself comes behind us. 
19 And Jacob gave the same order to the second, and to the third, and to all those who followed the flocks, and said: This is how you will speak to my lord Esau when you meet him. 
20 And you will add, 'Behold your servant Jacob also comes behind us'. For Jacob said to himself, 'I will appease him with this gift that goes before me, then I will see him face to face and perhaps he will welcome me favorably'. 
21 So the present went before Jacob, and he remained in the camp that night. 
22 And he got up the same night, and took his two wives, and his two maids, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of Jabbok.
23 He took them, and sent them over the river, and also sent over all that he had. 
24 And Jacob was left alone. Then a man fought with him until dawn. 
25 And when he saw that he could not defeat Jacob, then this man touched the hollow of his thigh. And the hollow of Jacob's thigh dislocated while he wrestled with the man. 
26 And he said, Let me go, for the dawn is breaking. And Jacob answered, I will not let you go until you have blessed me. 
27 And the man said to him, What is your name. And he answered, Jacob. 
28 And he said: Your name will no longer be Jacob, but you will be called Israel. Since you have had power with God, therefore you will also prevail with men.
29 Then Jacob asked him by saying: I pray you, let me know your name. And he answered, Why do you ask my name. And he blessed him there. 
30 And Jacob called the name of this place Peniel [that is to say, the face of God]. For he said: I have seen God face to face, and my life has been preserved. 
31 The sun was rising when he passed Peniel, and he was limping from his thigh. 
32 Therefore to this day the children of Israel do not eat of the sinew that shrinks in the hollow of the thigh, because he touched the sinew that shrinks in the hollow of the thigh of Jacob.
