1 The whole earth had one language and the same words. 
2 As they departed from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. 
3 They said to each other, Let us go, let us make bricks and cook them over the fire. And brick served as stone, and bitumen served as cement. 
4 They said again, Let us go, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top reaches to heaven. And make a name for ourselves, that we may not be scattered over the face of the whole earth. 
5 And Yahweh came down to see the city and the tower that the sons of men were building. 
6 And Yahweh said, Behold they are one people and all have one language, and this is what they undertook. Now nothing would stop them from doing whatever they planned. 
7 Let us go, let us go down, and there confound their language so that they no longer hear each other's speech. 
8 And Yahweh scattered them from there over the face of all the earth. And they stopped building the city. 
9 Therefore it was called Babel, for there Yahweh confused the language of all the earth. And from there Yahweh scattered them over the face of all the earth. 
10 Here are the descendants of Shem. Shem was a hundred years old when he fathered Arpachshad, two years after the flood. 
11 And Shem lived, after the birth of Arpachshad, five hundred years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
12 Arpachshad lived five and thirty years and begat Shelah. 
13 And Arpachshad lived, after the birth of Shelah, four hundred and three years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
14 Shelah, when thirty years old, fathered Eber. 
15 And Shelah lived, after the birth of Eber, four hundred and three years. And he begat sons and daughters.
16 Eber, when thirty four years old, fathered Peleg. 
17 And Eber lived, after the birth of Peleg, four hundred and thirty years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
18 Peleg, when thirty years old, fathered Reu. 
19 And Peleg lived, after the birth of Reu, two hundred and nine years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
20 Reu, when thirty two years old, fathered Serug. 
21 And Reu lived, after the birth of Serug, two hundred and seven years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
22 Serug, when thirty years old, fathered Nahor. 
23 And Serug lived, after the birth of Nahor, two hundred years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
24 Nahor, when twenty nine years old, fathered Terah. 
25 And Nahor lived, after the birth of Terah, one hundred and nineteen years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
26 Terah, when seventy years old, fathered Abram and Nahor and Haran. 
27 Here are the descendants of Terah. Terah fathered Abram and Nahor and Haran. And Haran begat Lot. 
28 And Haran died in the presence of Terah his father, in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
29 Abram and Nahor took wives. The name Abram wife's was Sarai. And the name of Nahor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, father of Milcah and father of Iscah. 
30 Sarai was barren. She had no child. 
31 Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his son's son. And also Sarai his daughter in law, the wife of Abram his son. And they went together from Ur of the Chaldees to the land of Canaan. And they came to Haran and dwelt there. 
32 The days of Terah were two hundred and five years. And Terah died in Haran.
