1 In the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, and Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim.
2 It came to pass that they made war against Bera king of Sodom, and to Birsha king of Gomorrah, and to Shinab king of Admah, and to Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and to the king of Bela which is Zoar. 
3 These all gathered together in the valley of Siddim, which is the Salt Sea. 
4 For twelve years they had been subject to Chedorlaomer. And in the thirteenth year they revolted. 
5 But in the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him set out, and they defeated the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim.
6 And the Horites in their mountain Seir, as far as the oak of El-Paran, which is by the wilderness. 
7 Then they returned and came to En-Mishpath, which is Kadesh, and defeated the Amalekites throughout their territory. As well as the Amorites established at Hazazon-Tamar. 
8 Then came the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela which is Zoar. And they arrayed themselves in battle against them in the valley of Siddim. 
9 To fight against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar. Four kings against five. 
10 And the Siddim valley was covered with bitumen pits. The king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah fled and [their soldiers] fell there, and the rest fled to the mountain. 
11 The victors took away all the riches of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their provisions, and they left. 
12 They also took away with his goods, Lot the son of Abram's brother who dwelt in Sodom. And they left. 
13  And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew. This one dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, the Amorite brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner. And these had made an alliance with Abram. 
14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken prisoner, he armed three hundred and eighteen of his bravest servants, born in his house, and he pursued the kings as far as Dan. 
15 And he divided his troop to attack him and his servants at night. He defeated them, and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is on the left of Damascus. 
16 And he brought back all the riches. He also brought back his brother Lot, and his goods and the women and the people. 
17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him, at the valley of Shaveh which is the valley of the king. 
18 And Melchizedek king of Salem had bread and wine brought. He was priest of the God Most High. 
19 And he blessed Abram and said: Blessed be Abram by the God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth. 
20 And blessed be the God Most High who has delivered your enemies into your hands. And Abram gave him a tithe of everything. 
21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram: Give me people, and take for yourself the riches. 
22 And Abram answered the king of Sodom, I lift up my hand to Yahweh the God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth. 
23 That I will not take anything that is yours, not even a thread nor a shoestring so that you do not say: I made Abram rich. 
24 Save only what the young men ate, and the portion of the men who walked with me, Aner and Eshcol and Mamre. They will take their portion.
