1 At that time Judah departed from his brothers and turned to a man of Adullam, whose name was Hirah. 
2 There Judah saw the daughter of a Canaanite, named Shuah. And he took her as his wife, and went to her. 
3 She became pregnant and bore a son whom she named Er. 
4 And she became pregnant again, and bore a son whom she named Onan. 
5 And she again bore a son, and named him Shelah. Judah was in Chezib when she gave birth to him. 
6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. 
7 Er the firstborn of Judah was wicked in the sight of Yahweh. And Yahweh put him to death. 
8 Then Judah said to Onan, Go to your brother's wife. And perform with her the duty of a husband's brother, and raise up seed for your brother. 
9 And Onan knew that this seed would not be his. And he spread it on the ground when he went to his brother's wife, so as not to give offspring to his brother. 
10 What he did was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he also put him to death. 
11 Then Judah said to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow in your father's house until Shelah my son grows up. He spoke thus in fear that Shelah would die like his brothers. And Tamar went and lived in her father's house. 
12 The days passed, and the daughter of Shuah, the wife of Judah, died. When Judah was comforted, he went up to Timnah to those who sheared his sheep, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. 
13 And it was told Tamar by saying, Behold your father in law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep. 
14 Then she took off her widow's clothing, and covered herself with a veil and wrapped herself, and she sat at the entrance to Enaim, on the way to Timnah. For she saw that Shelah had become great, and that she was not given to him as a wife. 
15 Judah saw her and took her for a prostitute, because she had covered her face. 
16 He approached her on the way and said, Let me come to you. For he did not know that it was his daughter in law. And she said, What will you give me to come to me. 
17 And he answered, I will send you a kid of the goats from my flock. And she said, Will you give me a pledge, until you send it. 
18 And he answered, What pledge will I give you. And she said, Your seal, your cord, and the stick that you have in your hand. And he gave them to her, and he went to her, and she became pregnant by him. 
19 And she got up and went away, and she took off her veil and put on her widow's clothes again. 
20 And Judah sent the kid of the goats by his friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman's hands. But he did not find her. 
21 Then he asked the people of the place by saying, Where is that prostitute who stood in Enaim on the way. And they answered, There was no prostitute here. 
22 And he returned to Judah and said, I did not find her and even the local people said, There was no prostitute here. 
23 And Judah said, Let her keep what she has, and let us not expose ourselves to contempt. Behold I sent this kid and you did not find her. 
24 About three months later it was told Judah by saying, Tamar your daughter in law has prostituted herself, and lo she is pregnant as a result of her prostitution. And Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. 
25 As she was being taken outside, she sent to her father in law and said: It is from the man to whom these things belong that I am pregnant. Recognize, I pray you, who owns this seal and these cords and this staff. 
26 And Judah recognized them and said, She is less guilty than I, since I did not give her to my son Shelah. And he no longer knew her. 
27 When she was about to give birth, behold there were twins in her womb. 
28 And during childbirth there was one who presented his hand, and the midwife took it and tied a crimson thread to it and said: This one comes out first.
29 But he withdrew his hand and his brother went out. Then the midwife said, What a breach you have made. Therefore they called him Perez. 
30 Then came out his brother, who had the crimson thread in his hand. And they called him Zerah.
