1 The famine was great in the country. 
2 They finished eating the grain that they had brought from Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, Go again and buy us a little food. 
3 And Judah answered him, The man made this formal declaration to us, You will not see my face, unless your brother is with you. 
4 So if you want to send our brother with us, then we will go and we will buy you some food. 
5 But if you do not want to send him, then we will not go. For the man said to us: You will not see my face, unless your brother is with you. 
6 Then Israel said: Why have you done evil to me, by telling the man that you still had a brother. 
7 And they answered: The man asked us about ourselves and our family by saying, 'Is your father still alive, do you have a brother'. And we answered him according to his questions. Could we have known that he would say, 'Bring your brother here'. 
8 And Judah said to his father Israel, Let the child come with me and we will arise and go. And we will live and not die, we and you and our children. 
9 I answer for him, you will ask for him from my hand. If I do not bring him back to you and deliver him before you, then I will forever bear the blame. 
10 For if we had not delayed, we would now have returned twice. 
11 And Israel their father said to them: Since it is necessary then do this. Take some of the best productions of the land in your bags, to bring a gift to the man. A little balsam and a little honey, and spices, and myrrh, and nuts, and almonds. 
12 And take double money with you. Take back the money that was put at the mouth of your bags, because it may be that it was a mistake. 
13 Take also your brother and stand up, and go to the man again. 
14 May God Almighty grant you grace before the man, and may he let your other brother and Benjamin come back with you. And me, if I have to be deprived of my children, let me be deprived of them. 
15 And they took the present, and they took double the amount of money with them, and also Benjamin, and they got up and went to Egypt. And presented themselves before Joseph. 
16 When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to his steward: Bring these men into the house, and kill the meat and prepare it. For these people will eat with me at noon. 
17 And the man did as Joseph commanded, and he brought these people to Joseph's house. 
18 They were afraid when they were brought to Joseph's house. And they said, It is because of the money put back in our bags the other time that we are being taken away. They will rush at us and take us as slaves, and seize our donkeys. 
19 And they came to the steward of Joseph's house, and spoke to him at the door of the house. 
20 And they said, Sorry my lord, we have already came once to buy provisions. 
21 Then, when we arrived at the place where we were to spend the night, we opened our bags. And behold, each man's money was at the mouth of his bag, our money in full weight. We bring it back with us. 
22 We also brought money to buy food. But we do not know who has put our money back in our bags. 
23 And the steward replied, Peace be with you, fear nothing. It is your God, the God of your father, who has given you treasure in your bags, for your money has reached me. And he brought them Simeon. 
24 And the man brought them into Joseph's house, and he gave them water and they washed their feet. And he also gave fodder to their donkeys. 
25 And they prepared their present, waiting for Joseph to come at noon. For they had been informed that they will eat at his house. 
26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him into the house the gift that they had in their hands, and they bowed down to the ground before him. 
27 He asked about them and he said, Your old father of whom you spoke, is he healthy, is he still alive. 
28 And they answered, Your servant our father is in good health. He is still alive. And they knelt down and bowed themselves. 
29 And Joseph lifted up his eyes and looked at Benjamin his brother, his mother's son. And he said, Is this your youngest brother of whom you spoke to me. And he added, God have mercy on you my son. 
30 And his heart was moved for his brother, and he needed to cry. And he rushed into a room and there he wept. 
31 After washing his face, he went out. And making an effort to contain himself, he said: Serve food. 
32 Joseph was served separately, and his brothers separately. And the Egyptians who ate with him were also served separately. For the Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews, because it is an abomination in the eyes of the Egyptians. 
33 Joseph's brothers sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his age. And they looked at each other in astonishment. 
34 And the food that was before Joseph was brought to them, and Benjamin had five times more than each of the others. And they drank and were merry with him.
