1 After these events the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision saying, Abram do not be afraid. I am your shield and your exceedingly great reward. 
2 And Abram answered, O Lord Yahweh, what will you give me, for I am leaving without children and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. 
3 And Abram said, Behold you have not given me descendants and he that is born in my house will be my heir. 
4 Then the word of Yahweh came to him by saying, This man will not be your heir, but he who will comes out of your own bowels will be your heir. 
5 And he brought him out and said, Look up to the sky, and count the stars if you can count them. And he said to him, Such will be your seed. 
6 And Abraham has trusted Yahweh, and it is for this reason that Yahweh recognized him as a righteous person. 
7 And he said to him, I am Yahweh who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give you this land to inherit it. 
8 And Abram replied, O Lord Yahweh, by what will I know that I will possess it. 
9 And he said to him, Take me a three year old heifer, and a three year old female goat, and a three year old ram, and a turtle-dove, and a young pigeon. 
10 And he took him all these, cut them in the middle and placed each piece opposite each other. But he did not cut the birds. 
11 And the birds of prey descended on the corpses, and Abram drove them out. 
12 And at sunset a deep sleep fell upon Abram. And behold, fear and great darkness came on him. 
13 And he said to Abram, Know with certainty that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs. They will be enslaved there, and they will be oppressed for four hundred years. 
14 But I will judge the nation whom they will serve, and then they will come out with great riches. 
15 But you, you will go in peace to your fathers. You will be buried after a happy old age. 
16 And in the fourth generation they will come back here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet at its height. 
17 When the sun had set and there was darkness, behold it was a smoking furnace, and flames passed between these pieces of animals. 
18 In that day Yahweh made a covenant with Abram by saying, To your seed I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. 
19 The land of the Kenites, and of the Kenizzites, and of the Kadmonites. 
20 And of the Hittites, and of the Perizzites, and of the Rephaim.
21 And of the Amorites, and of the Canaanites, and of the Girgashites, and of the Jebusites.
