1 Jacob called his sons and said, Assemble and I will tell you what will happen to you in the course of time. 
2 Gather yourselves together and listen, sons of Jacob. Listen to Israel your father. 
3 Reuben, you are my firstborn, my strength and the first fruits of my vigor, Superior in dignity and superior in power. 
4 Impetuous as the waters, you will not have pre-eminence. For you have climbed into your father's bed, you defiled it by entering it. 
5 Simeon and Levi are brothers. Their swords are instruments of violence. 
6 Let not my soul enter their council, nor my spirit be united with their assembly. For in their anger they killed men, and in their wickedness they cut off the hamstrings of the bulls. 
7 Cursed be their anger for it is violent, and their fury for it is cruel. I will separate them in Jacob, and I will scatter them in Israel. 
8 Judah, you will receive the homage of your brothers. Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies, and your father's sons will bow down to you. 
9 Judah is a young lion. You come back from the carnage, my son. He bends his knees and lies down like a lion, like a lioness. Who will make him stand up. 
10 The scepter will not depart from Judah nor the ruler's staff from between his feet until Shiloh comes, in whom will be the obedience of the peoples. 
11 He ties his donkey to the vine, and his donkey's colt to the best vine. He washes his garment in wine, and his coat in the blood of grapes. 
12 His eyes are red with wine and his teeth white with milk. 
13 Zebulun will dwell on the coast of the seas. He will be on the coast of ships, and his border will extend towards Sidon. 
14 Issachar is a strong donkey, who lies down in the stables. 
15 He sees that the place where he rests is pleasant, and the country is magnificent. And he bends his shoulder under the burden, he subjected himself to a tribute. 
16 Dan will judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. 
17 Dan will be a serpent in the way, a viper on the path. Biting the horse's heels so that the rider falls backwards. 
18 I hope for your help, O Yahweh. 
19 Gad will be assailed by armed bands, But he will attack and pursue them. 
20 Asher produces excellent food. He will provide the delicacies of kings. 
21 Naphtali is a doe running free. He speaks beautiful words. 
22 Joseph is the shoot of a fertile tree, the shoot of a fertile tree near a spring. The branches rise above the wall. 
23 They provoked him, they threw darts, the archers pursued him with their hatred. 
24 But his bow remained firm, and his hands were strengthened by the hands of the mighty one of Jacob. He thus became the shepherd  by the rock of Israel. 
25 It is the work of the God of your father who will help you. The work of the Almighty who will bless you with blessings from heaven above. Blessings of the depths that lie below, blessings of the breasts and the maternal womb. 
26 The blessings of your father rise above the blessings of my fathers to the tops of the everlasting hills. They will be on the head of Joseph, on the top of the head of him who was separated from his brothers. 
27 Benjamin is a wolf who rips. In the morning he devours the prey, and in the evening he divides the spoils. 
28 These are all those who form the twelve tribes of Israel. And this is what their father told them while blessing them. He blessed them each according to his blessing. 
29 Then he gave them this order, I will be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers, in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. 
30 In the cave of the field of Machpelah, opposite Mamre, in the land of Canaan. This is the field that Abraham bought from Ephron the Hittite as sepulchral property. 
31 There were buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. And there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife. And there I buried Leah. 
32 The field and the cave in it were purchased from the sons of Heth. 
33 When Jacob had finished giving his orders to his sons, he lifted his feet into the bed and he expired and was gathered to his people.
