1 Then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, My brothers and my father came from the land of Canaan, with their flocks and their herds and all that they have. And behold, they are in the land of Goshen. 
2 And he took five of his brothers and presented them to Pharaoh. 
3 And Pharaoh said to them, What is your occupation. And they answered Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds, as our fathers were. 
4 And they said to Pharaoh: We have come to sojourn in the land. For there is no more pasture for the flocks of your servants, and the famine is heavy in the land of Canaan. Therefore permit your servants to dwell in the land of Goshen. 
5 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Your father and your brothers have come to you. 
6 The land of Egypt is before you. Settle your father and your brothers in the best part of the land. Let them dwell in the land of Goshen. And if you find capable men among them, then put them at the head of my flocks. 
7 Joseph called his father Jacob and presented him to Pharaoh. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
8 And Pharaoh said to Jacob, What are the number of days of the years of your life. 
9 And Jacob answered Pharaoh: The days of the years of my pilgrimage are one hundred and thirty years. The days of the years of my life have been few and evil, and they have not reached the days of the years of the life of my fathers during the days of their pilgrimage. 
10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and withdrew from the presence of Pharaoh. 
11 And Joseph established his father and his brothers, and gave them an estate in the land of Egypt, in the best part of the country in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh commanded. 
12 And Joseph provided bread for his father and his brothers, and to all his father's family, according to the number of children. 
13 There was no bread in all the land, for the famine was very great. And the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of famine. 
14 Joseph collected all the money that was in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan, for the grain they were buying. And he brought this money into Pharaoh's house. 
15 When the money of the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan was exhausted, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said: Give us some bread. Why should we die in your presence, for money is lacking. 
16 And Joseph said, Give your flocks. And I will give you bread for your flocks if money fails. 
17 And they brought their flocks to Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread for the horses, and for the flocks, and for the herds, and for the donkeys. He thus provides them with bread that year in exchange for all their flocks. 
18 When that year was ended, they came to Joseph the next year and said: We will not hide from my lord that the money is exhausted, and the herds of cattle have been brought to my lord. And all that remains in the sight of my lord are our bodies and our lands. 
19 Why should we die before your eyes, us and our lands. Buy us with our lands for bread. And we will belong to my lord, us and our lands. Give us something to sow, that we may live and not die, and that our lands not be desolate. 
20 And Joseph bought all the lands of Egypt for Pharaoh. For the Egyptians sold each their field because famine pressed them. And the land became Pharaoh's property. 
21 He brought the people through the cities, from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other. 
22 But he did not buy the priests' lands. For there was a law of Pharaoh in favor of the priests, who lived on the income that Pharaoh assured them. Therefore they did not sell their lands. 
23 Then Joseph said to the people, Behold I have bought you this day with your lands for Pharaoh. Here is seed for you, and you will sow the ground. 
24 And at the harvest you will give a fifth to Pharaoh. And you will have the other four parts, to sow the fields and to feed you and your children and those who are in your houses. 
25 And they answered, You save our lives. Let us find favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be slaves of Pharaoh. 
26 And Joseph made it a law which has been maintained to this day in the land of Egypt. A fifth of the revenue of the lands belongs to Pharaoh, except for the lands of the priests which did not belong to Pharaoh. 
27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen. And they possessed goods there, and they were fruitful and greatly multiplied. 
28 And Jacob lived seventeen years in the land of Egypt. And the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were one hundred and forty and seven years. 
29 When Israel approached the time of his death, he called his son Joseph and said to him: If I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh and be kind and faithful to me. Do not bury me in Egypt. 
30 When I sleep with my fathers, you will carry me out of Egypt and you will bury me in their burying-place. And Joseph replied: I will do according to your word. 
31 And Jacob said, Swear to me. And Joseph swore to him. And Israel bowed himself on the head of his bed.
