1 Now the serpent was more cunning than any other beast of the field which Yahweh God had made. And he said to the woman, Did God really say: You will not eat of every tree of the garden. 
2 The woman answered the serpent, We eat the fruit of the trees of the garden. 
3 But as for the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, God said, You will not eat of it nor touch it, lest you die. 
4 Then the serpent said to the woman, You will not die. 
5 But God knows that in the day you eat it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like gods, knowing good and evil. 
6 And the woman saw that the tree was good for food and pleasant to the sight, and that it was precious for opening the mind. She took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband who was with her, and he ate of it. 
7 And the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves, and made belts for themselves. 
8 Then they heard the voice of Yahweh God going through the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden. 
9 But Yahweh God called the man, and said to him, Where are you. 
10 And he answered, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked. And I hid myself. 
11 And he said, Who told you that you was naked. Did you eat from the tree that I forbade you to eat from. 
12 The man answered, The woman whom you placed with me gave me from the tree, and I ate of it. 
13 And Yahweh God said to the woman, Why have you done this. The woman answered, The serpent deceived me, and I ate it. 
14 And Yahweh God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field. And you will walk on your belly, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. 
15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your descendants and her descendants. These one will bruise your head, and you will bruise their heel. 
16 He said to the woman, I will increase the pain of your childbearing. You will bear children with pain, and your desire will be for your husband, but he will have dominion over you. 
17 And he said to the man, Because you have obeyed the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you 'You will not eat from it', the ground will be cursed because of you. It is by dint of labor that you will obtain your nourishment from it all the days of your life. 
18 It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the grass of the field. 
19 In the sweat of your face you will eat bread, until you return to the earth from which you were taken. For you are dust, and to dust you will return. 
20 Adam named his wife Eve, because she was the mother of all living. 
21 Yahweh God made clothes of skins for Adam and his wife, and clothed them. 
22 And Yahweh God said, Behold man became as one of us for the knowledge of good and evil. Let us now prevent him from putting forth his hand and taking from the tree of life, and eating from it and living forever. 
23 And Yahweh God cast him out of the garden of Eden, that he might cultivate the earth from which he had been taken. 
24 This is how he drove out the man, and he placed on the east of the garden of Eden the cherubim and an agitated flaming sword to guard the way to the tree of life.
