1 When Abram was ninety nine years old, Yahweh appeared to Abram and said to him, I am the God Almighty. Walk before my face and be blameless. 
2 And I will establish my covenant between me and you, and I will multiply you endlessly. 
3 And Abram fell on his face, and God spoke to him. 
4 And said, As for me behold, my covenant is with you, and you will become the father of a multitude of nations. 
5 You will no longer be called Abram, but your name will be Abraham, for I have made you the father of many nations. 
6 I will make you fruitful to infinity, and I will make nations of you, and kings will come from you. 
7 And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your seed after you, according to their generations. It will be an everlasting covenant, by virtue of which I will be God to you and to your seed after you. 
8 And the land on which you live as a foreigner, I will give it to you and to your seed after you. All the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. 
9 And God said to Abraham: And as for you, you will keep my covenant, you and your seed after you throughout their generations. 
10 This is my covenant, that you will keep between me and you, and your seed after you. Every male among you will be circumcised. 
11 And you will be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it will be a token of a covenant between me and you. 
12 At eight days old, every male among you will be circumcised, according to your generations, whether he was born in the house or bought with money from any foreigner who is not of your kind. 
13 He who is born in your house and he who is acquired for money must be circumcised, and my covenant will be in your flesh as an everlasting covenant. 
14 And an uncircumcised male, who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person will be cut off from his people because he broke my covenant. 
15 And God said to Abraham, You will no longer give to your wife Sarai the name of Sarai. But her name will be Sarah. 
16 And I will bless her, and I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she will become nations, and kings of peoples will come from her. 
17 Then Abraham fell on his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Will a child be born to a man of a hundred years old. And will Sarah, being ninety years old, bear children. 
18 And Abraham said to God: Oh that Ishmael may live before your face. 
19 And God said: Sarah your wife will certainly bear you a son, and you will call his name Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his seed after him. 
20 And concerning Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold I have blessed him and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He will beget twelve princes, and I will make of him a great nation. 
21 But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this set time of the next year. 
22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham. 
23 And Abraham took his son Ishmael, and all those who were born in his house and all those whom he bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house. And he circumcised the flesh of their foreskin that same day, as God had said to him. 
24 Abraham was ninety nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
26 That same day Abraham was circumcised, as well as Ishmael his son. 
27 And all the men of his house, born in his house or acquired by money from foreigners, were circumcised with him.
