1 Men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born to them. 
2 And the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives from among all those whom they chose. 
3 And Yahweh said, My spirit will not remain in man forever, for man is flesh, and his days will be one hundred and twenty years. 
4 The giants were on the earth in those days, and also after that, when the sons of God came to the daughters of men and bore them children known as the mighty men who were famous in ancient times. 
5 And Yahweh saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was evil continually. 
6 And Yahweh repented of having created man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. 
7 And Yahweh said: I will destroy from the face of the earth man whom I have created, from man to cattle, and to creeping things, and to birds of the heavens. For I repent of having done them. 
8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of Yahweh. 
9 Here are the descendants of Noah. Noah was a just and upright man in his time. Noah walked with God. 
10 Noah fathered three sons: Shem and Ham and Japheth. 
11 And the earth was corrupt before God, for the earth was filled with violence. 
12 God looked at the earth and behold, it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted its way on earth. 
13 And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh is decided by me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. And behold, I will destroy them with the earth. 
14 Make yourself an ark of gopher wood. You will arrange this ark into rooms, and you will cover it with pitch inside and out. 
15 And this is how you will make it. The length of the ark three hundred cubits, the width of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. 
16 You will make a window for the ark, which you will reduce to a cubit above. You will establish the door on the side of the ark, and you will build a lower story, a second and a third. 
17 And I behold, I will bring a flood of waters on the earth, to destroy all flesh that has the breath of life under heaven, everything on earth will perish. 
18 But I will establish my covenant with you. And you will enter the ark, you, and your sons, and your wife, and your sons' wives with you. 
19 And of everything that lives, of all flesh, you will bring two of each kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you. They will be male and female. 
20 Of the birds according to their species, and of the cattle according to their species, and of every creeping thing of the ground according to its species, two of each kind will come to you to keep them alive. 
21 And you, take from all the foods that is eaten and make a provision with you, that it may be food for you and for them. 
22 Thus did Noah. He carried out everything that God had commanded him. 
