1 God said to Jacob, Arise, and go up to Bethel and dwell there. And there you will set up an altar to the God who appeared to you when you were fleeing your brother Esau. 
2 And Jacob said to his household and to all those who were with him: Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves and change your clothes. 
3 We will arise and go up to Bethel. And there I will set up an altar to the God who heard me in the day of my trouble, and who was with me during the journey I made. 
4 And they gave to Jacob all the foreign gods that were in their hands, and the rings that were in their ears. And Jacob buried it under the terebinth tree near Shechem. 
5 Then they left. And the terror of God spread over the cities around them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob. 
6 And Jacob came to Luz, which is Bethel in the land of Canaan, he and all those who were with him. 
7 And he built an altar there, and called the place El-Bethel. For it was there that God had revealed himself to Jacob when Jacob was fleeing from his brother. 
8 And Deborah, the nurse of Rebecca, died. And she was buried under Bethel, under the oak which was then given the name of weeping oak. 
9 God appeared to Jacob again, after his return from Paddan-aram, and blessed him. 
10 And God said to him, Your name is Jacob. And you will no longer be called Jacob, but your name will be Israel. And he called his name Israel. 
11 God said to him, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a multitude of nations will be born of you, and kings will come from your waist. 
12 I will give you the land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac, and I will give this land to your seed after you. 
13 And God rose from him, in the place where he had spoken to him. 
14 And Jacob set up a monument in the place where he had spoken to him. A stone monument, on which he made a libation and poured oil. 
15 And Jacob gave the name Bethel to the place where God had spoken to him. 
16 They set out from Bethel. And there was still some distance to Ephrath, when Rachel gave birth. She had a difficult birth. 
17 And during the pains of childbirth, the midwife said to her, Do not be afraid, for you still have a son. 
18 And as she was about to give up the spirit, because she was dying, she gave him the name Ben-oni. But his father called him Benjamin. 
19 Thus Rachel died, and she was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem. 
20 And Jacob set up a monument on his tomb. It is the monument of Rachel's sepulcher, which still exists today. 
21 And Israel left, and he pitched his tent beyond Migdal-Eder. 
22 While Israel dwelt in that land, Reuben went and slept with Bilhah the concubine of his father. And Israel heard it. The sons of Jacob were twelve in number. 
23 The sons of Leah were Reuben the firstborn of Jacob, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun. 
24 The sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. 
25 The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid, were Dan and Naphtali. 
26 The sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid, were Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan-aram. 
27 And Jacob came to his father Isaac in Mamre, in Kiriath-arba, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. 
28 And the days of Isaac were one hundred and eighty years. 
29 And he expired and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
