1 Jacob heard the words of the sons of Laban, who said, Jacob took everything that belonged to our father, and it is with our father's property that he acquired all this wealth. 
2 And Jacob also noticed Laban's face. And behold, he was no longer towards him as before. 
3 Then Yahweh said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your birthplace, and I will be with you. 
4 Jacob sent, and called Rachel and Leah who were in the field, to his flock. 
5 He said to them, I see in your father's face that he is no longer towards me as before. But the God of my father has been with me. 
6 You yourselves know that I served your father with all my power. 
7 And your father played me, and changed my wages ten times. But God did not allow him to harm me. 
8 When he said, the speckled ones will be your wage. Then all the flock made little speckled ones. And when he said, The striped ones will be your salary. Then all the flock made little striped ones. 
9 God took his flock from your father and gave it to me. 
10 In the days when the flock was in heat, I looked up, and I saw in a dream that the male goats which covered the flock were striped, and speckled and inlaid. 
11 And the angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob. And I replied, Here I am. 
12 And he said, Lift up your eyes and see. All the male goats which cover the flock are striped, and speckled and inlaid, for I have seen all that Laban does to you. 
13 I am the God of Bethel, where you have anointed a monument, where you made me a wish. Now arise and get out of this country, and return to the land of your birth. 
14 Rachel and Leah answered and said to him, Do we still have a portion and an inheritance in our father's house. 
15 Are we not regarded by him as strangers, since he sold us and ate our money. 
16 All the wealth that God took from our father belongs to us and to our children. Now do everything God has told you. 
17 Jacob got up and put his children and his wives on the camels. 
18 He took away all his flock and all the goods that he had, the flock that belonged to him, which he had acquired in Paddan-aram. And he went to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan. 
19 While Laban went to shear his sheep, Rachel stole her father's teraphim. 
20 And Jacob deceived Laban the Syrian by not warning him that he fled. 
21 He fled, with everything that belonged to him. He got up and crossed the river, and went towards the mountain of Gilead. 
22 On the third day Laban was told that Jacob had fled. 
23 Then he took his brothers with him, pursued him for seven days of walking, and reached him in mount Gilead. 
24 But God appeared in a dream by night to Laban the Syrian and said to him, Take care not to speak to Jacob either good or bad. 
25 So Laban reached Jacob. Jacob had pitched his tent on the mountain. Laban also set up his own, with his brothers, on the mountain of Gilead. 
26 Then Laban said to Jacob, What have you done. Why did you deceive me, and do you lead away my daughters as captives to the sword. 
27 Why did you run away in secret, and steal from me, and have you not warned me. I would have let you go amid the rejoicings and the songs, to the sound of the tambourine and the harp. 
28 You have not allowed me to kiss my sons and my daughters. You acted foolishly. 
29 My hand is strong enough to hurt you. But the God of your father said to me yesterday, Take care not to speak to Jacob either good or bad. 
30 Now that you are gone, because you longed for your father's house, why have you stolen my gods. 
31 Jacob answered and said to Laban, I was afraid that you might take your daughters away from me by force. 
32 But perish he with whom you find your gods. In the presence of our brothers, examine what belongs to you in me, and take it. Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them. 
33 Laban entered the tent of Jacob, into the tent of Leah, into the tent of the two maids, and he found nothing. And he left Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent. 
34 Rachel had taken the teraphim, put them under the camel's pack, and sat on it. And Laban searched the entire tent, and found nothing. 
35 She said to her father, Let not my lord be angry, if I cannot rise up before you, because I have what is ordinary for women. And he searched, and did not find the teraphim. 
36 Jacob was angry, and quarreled with Laban. He spoke again and said to him, What is my crime, what is my sin, that you pursue me with so much ardor. 
37 When you searched all my belongings, what did you find that came from your house. Produce it here before my brothers and your brothers, and that they pronounce between the two of us. 
38 I have been with you these twenty years. Your sheep and your goats have not miscarried, nor have I eaten the rams of your flock. 
39 I have not brought you any torn animals, but I paid the damage. You required of my hands me what was stolen from me during the day and what was stolen from me at night. 
40 The heat consumed me during the day, and the cold during the night, and sleep fled from my eyes. 
41 I have spent twenty years in your house. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times. 
42 If I had not had the God of my father for me, the God of Abraham, whom Isaac fears, you would now have sent me away empty. God saw my suffering and the work of my hands, and last night he pronounced his judgment. 
43 Laban answered and said to Jacob, These girls are my daughters, these children are my children, this flock is my flock, and everything you see is mine. And what can I do today for my daughters, or for the children to whom they gave birth. 
44 Come, let me and you make a covenant, and let this be a testimony between me and you. 
45 And Jacob took a stone and set it up as a monument. 
46 And Jacob said to his brothers [his servants], Collect stones. So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there on the heap. 
47 And Laban called it Jegar-saha-dutha, but Jacob called it Galeed. 
48 For Laban said, Let this heap serve today as a testimony between me and you. This is why it was given the name Galeed. 
49 It is also called Mizpah, because he said, May Yahweh watch over you and over me, when we have both lost sight of each other. 
50 If you mistreat my daughters, and if you take more wives, it is not a man who will be with us. Be careful, it is God who will be witness between me and you. 
51 And Laban said to Jacob, Here is this heap, and here is this monument that I have erected between me and you. 
52 Let this heap be a witness and this monument be a witness that I will not go beyond this heap to you, and that you will not come to me beyond this heap and this monument, to act wickedly. 
53 May the God of Abraham and Nahor, and the God of their father, be judge between us. And Jacob swore by him whom Isaac feared. 
54 And Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain, and he invited his brothers to eat bread. So they ate bread, and spent the night on the mountain. 
55 And Laban rose early in the morning and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them. And Laban left to return to his home.
