1 Joseph could no longer contain himself in front of everyone around him. And he cried out, Get everyone out. And there remained no one with Joseph, when he made himself known to his brothers. 
2 And he raised his voice weeping. And the Egyptians heard it, and the house of Pharaoh heard it. 
3 And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive. But his brothers could not answer him, because they were troubled in his presence. 
4 And Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me. And they approached. And he says, I am Joseph your brother whom you sold to be taken to Egypt. 
5 Now do not grieve, and do not be angry that you sold me to be brought here. For it is to save your life that God has sent me before you. 
6 Famine has been in the country for two years. And for five more years there will be neither plowing nor harvest. 
7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a remnant on the earth, and to save you alive by a great deliverance. 
8 So it was not you who sent me here, but it was God. And he made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and governor of all the land of Egypt. 
9 Hurry and return to my father, and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph: God has made me lord of all Egypt. Come to me, do not delay. 
10 You will dwell in the land of Goshen. And you will be near me, you and your children, and your children' children, and your flocks and your herds, and everything that is yours. 
11 There I will feed you, for there will be five more years of famine. And so you and your house and all that you have will not perish. 
12 You see with your eyes, and my brother Benjamin sees with his eyes that it is me who is speaking to you. 
13 Tell my father all my glory in Egypt, and all that you have seen. And you will bring my father here as soon as possible. 
14 And he fell on the neck of Benjamin his brother and wept. And Benjamin wept on his neck. 
15 He also embraced all his brothers, weeping. Afterwards his brothers spoke with him. 
16 A report spread throughout Pharaoh's house that Joseph's brothers had arrived, which pleased Pharaoh and his servants. 
17 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Tell your brothers to do this, Load up your beasts and go to the land of Canaan. 
18 And take your father and your families, and come to me. I will give you the best that is in the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land. 
19 You are ordered to tell them by saying, Do this. Take chariots from the land of Egypt for your children and for your wives. And bring your father, and come. 
20 Do not regret what you leave behind, for the best of all the land of Egypt will be yours. 
21 And the children of Israel did so. And Joseph gave them chariots, according to the command of Pharaoh. And he also gave them provisions for the journey. 
22 And he gave them all, without exception, a change of clothes. But he gave Benjamin three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of clothes. 
23 And to his father he sent ten donkeys loaded with the best of Egypt, and ten donkeys loaded with grain, and bread and provisions for his father during the journey. 
24 Then he sent his brothers away, and they left. And he said to them: Do not quarrel on the way. 
25 They went out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan, to their father Jacob. 
26 And they said to him, Joseph still lives. And it is he who governs the whole land of Egypt. But Jacob's heart remained cold, because he did not believe them.
27 And they told him all the words that Joseph had spoken to them. And he saw the chariots that Joseph had sent to transport him. And it was then that the spirit of Jacob, their father, was revived. 
28 And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph my son still lives. I will go and I will see him before I die.
