1 After these things it came to pass that the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their master, the king of Egypt. 
2 And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker. 
3 And he put them in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison, in the place where Joseph was confined. 
4 The chief of the guard placed them under the supervision of Joseph, who was in charge of them. And they spent some time in prison. 
5 During the same night both had a dream, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were locked up in the prison. Each had his own, being able to receive a distinct explanation. 
6 Joseph came to them in the morning and looked at them. And behold, they were sad. 
7 Then he asked Pharaoh's officers, who were with him in his master's prison. And he said to them, Why do you look bad today. 
8 They answered him, We had a dream each his own and there is no one to explain it. And Joseph said to them, Do not explanations belong to God. So tell me your dream. 
9 And the chief cupbearer related his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold there was a vine before me. 
10 This vine had three branches. When it grew, its flower developed and its clusters gave ripe grapes. 
11 And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand. And I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I put the cup in Pharaoh's hand. 
12 And Joseph said to him, This is the explanation. The three branches are three days. 
13 Three more days, and Pharaoh will raise up your head and restore you to your office. And you will place the cup in Pharaoh's hand, as you did when you were his cupbearer. 
14 But remember me when all goes well with you, and show kindness to me I pray you. Speak in my favor to Pharaoh, and get me out of this house. 
15 For I was taken up from the land of the Hebrews, and here I have done nothing that would warrant my imprisonment. 
16 When the chief baker saw that Joseph had given a favorable explanation he said, Behold there were also in my dream, three white baskets on my head. 
17 In the highest basket there were dishes of all kinds for Pharaoh, baked in the oven. And the birds were eating from the basket above my head. 
18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the explanation. The three baskets are three days. 
19 Three more days, and Pharaoh will remove your head from you and hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh. 
20 On the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all his servants. And he lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants. 
21 And he reinstates the chief cupbearer in his office as cupbearer, so that he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. 
22 But he had the chief baker hanged, according to the explanation that Joseph had given them. 
23 The chief cupbearer no longer thought of Joseph, and he forgot him.
