1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 
2 And the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved over the face of the waters. 
3 God said, Let there be light, and there was light. 
4 God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. 
5 God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, it was the first day.
6 And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. 
7 God made the expanse, and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. 
8 God called the expanse Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, it was the second day. 
9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so. 
10 God called the dry land Earth, and the gathering together of the waters he called Seas. And God saw that it was good. 
11 God said, Let the earth bring forth vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit according to their kinds, having their seed in them, on the earth. And it was so. 
12 And the earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their kinds, and trees bearing fruit that have their seed in them, according to their kinds. And God saw that it was good. 
13 And there was evening and there was morning, it was the third day. 
14 And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of heaven, to separate the day from the night. And let them be signs for seasons, and for days and years. 
15 And let them be lights in the expanse of heaven, to give light on the earth. And it was so. 
16 God made the two great lights. The greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He also made the stars. 
17 God placed them in the expanse of heaven to give light on the earth.
18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. 
19 And there was evening and there was morning, it was the fourth day. 
20 And God said, Let the waters produce abundance of living things, and let birds fly above the earth to the expanse of the heaven. 
21 God created great fish and every living creature that moves, that the waters produced in abundance according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. 
22 God blessed them by saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters of the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth. 
23 And there was evening and there was morning, it was the fifth day. 
24 And God said, Let the earth produce living creatures according to their kinds, cattle, creeping things, and animals of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so. 
25 God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, the cattle according to their kinds, and every creeping thing on the earth according to their kinds. God saw that it was good. 
26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that crawl on the earth. 
27 God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. 
28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. 
29 And God said, Behold I give you every herb yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree that has fruit yielding seed. It will be your food. 
30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to every thing that moves on the earth, having the breath of life in it, I give every green herb for food. And it was so. 
31 And God saw all that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, it was the sixth day.
