1 And Abram went from Egypt to the South, he and his wife and all that belonged to him, and Lot with him. 
2 Abram was very rich in cattle and silver and gold. 
3 He led his steps from the south to Bethel, to the place where his tent was at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai. 
4 To the place where was the altar he had previously made. And there Abram called on the name of the Yahweh. 
5 And Lot, who traveled with Abram, also had sheep and oxen and tents. 
6 And the land was insufficient for them to dwell together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. 
7 There was a quarrel between the shepherds of Abram's cattle and the shepherds of Lot's cattle. The Canaanites and the Perizzites lived in the land. 
8 Abram said to Lot, Let there be no quarrel, please, between me and you, nor between my shepherds and your shepherds. For we are brothers. 
9 Is not the whole land before you. Separate yourselves from me, please. If you go to the left then I will go to the right. And if you go to the right then I will go to the left. 
10 Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the whole plain of the Jordan was well watered every where. For before Yahweh destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, it was as far as Zoar like the garden of Yahweh, like the land of Egypt. 
11 Lot chose for himself the whole plain of the Jordan, and he advanced towards the east. Thus they separated from each other.
12 Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. 
13 Now the men of Sodom were wicked and great sinners against Yahweh. 
14 And Yahweh said to Abram after Lot had separated from him, Lift up your eyes, and from where you are, look toward the north and the south, toward the east and the west. 
15 For all the land that you see, I will give it to you and to your seed forever. 
16 I will make your seed as the dust of the earth. So that if anyone can number the dust of the earth, your seed also will be numbered. 
17 Get up, travel the length and the width of the land. For I will give it to you. 
18 And Abram moved his tent, and came to dwell among the oaks of Mamre which are in Hebron. And he built there an altar to Yahweh.
