1 After two years, Pharaoh had a dream. Behold he stood by the river. 
2 And behold, there came up out of the river seven cows, beautiful to the sight and fat in flesh. and they began to graze in the meadow. 
3 And lo, seven other cows came up out of the river behind them, ugly to look at and thin in flesh. And they stood with them on the bank of the river. 
4 And the cows that were ugly to look at and thin in flesh, ate the seven cows that were beautiful to look at and fat in flesh. And Pharaoh awoke. 
5 And he fell asleep again, and he had a second dream. Behold seven fat and beautiful ears of grain came up on one stalk. 
6 And lo, seven thin ears of corn, scorched by the east wind, grew after them. 
7 And the thin ears swallowed up the seven fat, full ears. And Pharaoh awoke and behold, it was a dream. 
8 In the morning his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called all the magicians and wise men of Egypt. And Pharaoh told them his dreams, but no one could explain them to Pharaoh. 
9 Then the chief cupbearer spoke and said to Pharaoh, Today I will recall the memory of my fault. 
10 Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and he had me put in prison in the house of the chief of the guard, me and the head baker. 
11 We both had a dream in the same night, and each of us received an explanation relating to the dream he had had. 
12 There with us was a young Hebrew, slave of the chief of the guards. We told him our dreams, and he explained them to us. To each man according to his dream he did interpret. 
13 And things happened according to the explanation he gave us. Pharaoh restored me to my office, and he hanged the chief baker. 
14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and he was quickly released from prison. And he shaved and changed his clothes, and went to Pharaoh. 
15 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I had a dream. No one can explain it, and I learned that you explain a dream after having heard it. 
16 Joseph answered Pharaoh by saying, It is not me. It is God who will give a favorable response to Pharaoh. 
17 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, In my dream, behold I stood on the bank of the river. 
18 And behold, there came up out of the river seven cows, beautiful to the sight and fat in flesh, and they began to graze in the meadow. 
19 And lo, seven other cows came up behind them, thin and very ugly and emaciated. I never saw such ugly ones in all the land of Egypt. 
20 And the emaciated and ugly cows ate the first seven cows which were fat. 
21 They engulfed them in their bellies, without anyone been able to notice that they had entered them. And their appearance was ugly as before. And I woke up. 
22 I saw again in a dream, behold seven full and beautiful ears of corn rose on one stalk. 
23 And lo, seven thin and empty ears of corn, scorched by the east wind, grew after them. 
24 And the skinny ears swallowed up the seven beautiful ears. I told the magicians, but no one gave me the explanation. 
25 And Joseph said to Pharaoh, The two dreams of Pharaoh are one. And God has made known to Pharaoh what he is about to do. 
26 The seven beautiful cows are seven years, and the seven beautiful ears of corn are seven years. It is one dream. 
27 And the seven emaciated and ugly cows, which came up behind the first, are seven years. And the seven empty ears of corn, burned by the east wind, will be seven years of famine. 
28 So, as I just told Pharaoh, God made known to Pharaoh what he is about to do. 
29 And behold, there will be seven years of great abundance throughout all the land of Egypt. 
30 And seven years of famine will come after them, and all this abundance will be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine will consume the land. 
31 This famine which will follow will be so severe that one will no longer remember the abundance in the country. 
32 If Pharaoh saw the dream repeat itself a second time, it is that the thing is decided on the part of God, and that God will hasten to execute it. 
33 Now therefore let Pharaoh choose an intelligent and wise man and put him over the land of Egypt. 
34 And let Pharaoh appoint commissioners over the land, to raise a fifth of the crops of Egypt during the seven years of plenty.
35 Let them gather together all the products of these good years to come. And let them make heaps of grain and provisions in the cities under the authority of Pharaoh. And that they have custody of it. 
36 These provisions will be in store for the land, for the seven years of famine that will come in the land of Egypt. And the land will not be consumed by famine. 
37 These words pleased Pharaoh and all his servants. 
38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants: Will we find a man like this, having the spirit of God in him. 
39 And Pharaoh said to Joseph: Since God has made known to you all these things, there is no one who is as intelligent and as wise as you. 
40 I will set you over my house, and all my people will obey your orders. The throne alone will elevate me above you. 
41 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold I give you authority over all the land of Egypt. 
42 Pharaoh took his ring out of his hand, and put it on Joseph's hand. And he clothed him in garments of fine linen, and put a golden necklace around his neck. 
43 And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had. And they shouted before him, On your knees. This is how Pharaoh gave him authority of the entire land of Egypt. 
44 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without you no one will lift hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. 
45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphenath-paneah. And he gave him Asenath to wife, the daughter of Poti-phera the priest of On. And Joseph went to visit the land of Egypt. 
46 Joseph was thirty years old when when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And he left Pharaoh, and traveled throughout all the land of Egypt. 
47 During the seven years of fertility, the land yielded abundantly. 
48 Joseph gathered together all the produce of these seven years in the land of Egypt. And he made supplies in the cities, placing in the interior of each city the productions of the surrounding fields. 
49 Joseph gathered grain like the sand of the sea, in quantities so great that they ceased to be counted, because there was no more number. 
50 Two sons were born to Joseph before the years of famine, bore him by Asnath the daughter of Poti-phera the priest of On. 
51 Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh because he said, God has made me forget all my troubles and all my father's house. 
52 And he named the second Ephraim for he said, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. 
53 And the seven years of plenty that were in the land of Egypt passed away. 
54 And the seven years of famine began to come, just as Joseph had predicted. And there was famine in all countries, but throughout the land of Egypt there was bread. 
55 And when all the land of Egypt was also hungry, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph and do what he tells you. 
56 And the famine was throughout the country. And Joseph opened all the places of supply, and sold grain to the Egyptians. For the famine was increasing in the land of Egypt. 
57 And from all countries they came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph, because the famine was great in all countries.
