1 And God remembered Noah and all the animals, and all the cattle that were with him in the ark. And God caused a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided. 
2 Also the fountains of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. 
3 And after the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters decreased, for the waters withdrew from the earth continually. 
4 And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark stopped on the mountains of Ararat. 
5 And the waters continued to decrease until the tenth month. In the tenth month, the first day of the month, the mountain peaks appeared. 
6 And after forty days, Noah opened the window he had made for the ark. 
7 He released a crow which came out, leaving and returning until the waters dried up on the earth. 
8 And he also released the dove, to see if the waters had diminished on the surface of the earth. 
9 But the dove found no place to rest the sole of her foot, and she returned to him in the ark, for there were waters on the face of all the earth. And he put out his hand, and took her, and brought her into the ark with him. 
10 He waited another seven days, and again he released the dove out of the ark. 
11 And the dove returned to him in the evening, and behold, an olive leaf plucked was in her beak. Noah thus knew that the waters had diminished on the earth. 
12 He waited another seven days, and he released the dove. But she never came back to him. 
13 In the year six hundred and one, the first month, the first day of the month, the waters had dried up on the earth. Noah removed the covering from the ark and looked, and behold, the surface of the earth was dried up. 
14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, the earth was dry.
15 Then God spoke to Noah.
16 Come out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives with you. 
17 Bring out with you all the animals of all flesh that are with you, both birds and cattle, and every creeping thing that crawls on the earth. Let them spread over the earth, that they may be fruitful and multiply on the earth. 
18 And Noah went out with his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives. 
19 And all the beasts, and all the creeping things, and all the birds, everything that moves on the earth according to their kinds, they came out of the ark. 
20 Noah built an altar to Yahweh, and he took of every clean beast, and of every clean bird, and he offered burnt offerings on the altar. 
21 And Yahweh smelled a sweet odor, and Yahweh said in his heart, I will no longer curse the earth for the sake of man, because the thoughts of the heart of man are evil from his youth. And I will no more smite every living thing as I have done.
22 As long as the earth remains, the sowing and the harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, they will not cease.
