1 Here are the descendants of the sons of Noah, Shem and Ham and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood. 
2 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
3 And the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
4 The sons of Javan were Elishah, and Tarshish, and Kittim and Dodanim. 
5 It is by them that the islands of the nations were populated according to their lands, according to the language of each, according to their families, according to their nations. 
6 The sons of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan. 
7 The sons of Cush were Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
8 Cush also begat Nimrod. It was he who began to be a mighty one on earth. 
9 He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh therefore it is said, Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Yahweh. 
10 He first reigned over Babel, Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
11 Out of that land he went to Assyria. And he builded Nineveh, and Rehoboth Hir, and Calah. 
12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah, which is the great city. 
13 And Mizraim begot the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim.
14 And the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim from whom came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim. 
15 And Canaan begat Sidon his firstborn, and Heth. 
16 And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite. 
17 And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite. 
18 And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. Then the families of the Canaanite spread abroad.
19 And the border of the Canaanite was from Sidon towards Gerar, to Gaza. And towards Sodom, from Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha. 
20 These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their languages, according to their lands, according to their nations. 
21 There were also sons born to Shem, the father of all the sons of Eber, and brother of Japheth the elder. 
22 The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram.
23 The sons of Aram were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
24 Arpachshad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.
25 And to Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Peleg because the land was divided during his lifetime [the people on the earth were divided into different languages], and the name of his brother was Joktan. 
26 Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah. 
27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah. 
28 And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba. 
29 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab, all these were the sons of Joktan. 
30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, on the side of Sephar, even to the mountain of the east. 
31 These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their languages, according to their lands, according to their nations. 
32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, according to their nations. And from them came the nations that spread over the earth after the flood.
