1 Adam knew Eve, his wife. And she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have formed a man by the help of Yahweh. 
2 She again bore his brother Abel. Abel was a shepherd, and Cain was a plowman. 
3 After a while, Cain made an offering of the fruits of the earth to the Yahweh. 
4 And Abel for his part offer from the firstborns of his flock and of their fat. And Yahweh looked favorably on Abel and his offering. 
5 But he did not look favorably on Cain and his offering. Cain was very angry, and his face was cast down. 
6 And Yahweh said to Cain, Why are you angry, and why is your face cast down. 
7 Certainly, if you do well then you will lift up your face. But if you do evil then sin lies down at the door and its desires are for you, but you have dominion over it. 
8 However Cain spoke to his brother Abel. But as they were in the field, Cain fell on his brother Abel and killed him. 
9 And Yahweh said to Cain, Where is your brother Abel. He replied, I do not know. Am I the keeper of my brother. 
10 And he said, What have you done. The voice of the blood of your brother cries out from the ground to me. 
11 And now you will be cursed by the earth that opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. 
12 When you cultivate the soil, it will no longer give you its wealth. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. 
13 And Cain said to Yahweh, My punishment is greater than what I can bear. 
14 Behold you chase me today from this ground. I will be hidden from your face, and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me. 
15 And Yahweh said to him, If anyone slay Cain, Cain would be avenged seven times. And the Yahweh put a sign on Cain, that whoever found him would not kill him. 
16 And Cain departed from the presence of Yahweh, and dwelt in the land which was afterwards called Nod, on the east of Eden. 
17 Cain knew his wife [his sister], and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city, and he named it after his son Enoch. 
18 Enoch begat Irad, Irad begat Mehujael, Mehujael begat Metuschael, and Metuschael begat Lamech. 
19 Lamech took two wives. The name of one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. 
20 Adah bore Jabal. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and near the cattle. 
21 And his brother's name was Jubal, who was the father of all those who handle the harp and pipe. 
22 Zillah, for her part, gave birth to Tubal-Cain, who forged all instruments of bronze and iron. Tubal-Cain's sister was Naamah. 
23 Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah listen to my voice, wives of Lamech hear my word, I have killed a man for my wound and a young man for my bruise. 
24 Cain will be avenged seven times, and Lamech seventy-seven times. 
25 Adam still knew his wife. And she bore a son and named him Seth for she said, God has given me another son in place of Abel whom Cain killed. 
26 Seth also had a son, and he called his name Enosh. It was then that people began to call on the name of Yahweh.
