1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had. And he came to Beersheba, and he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. 
2 And God spoke to Israel in a vision in the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. And Israel answered, Here I am. 
3 And he said, I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go to Egypt, for there I will make you a great nation. 
4 I will go with you into Egypt, and I will bring you up again. And Joseph will close your eyes with his hand. 
5 And Jacob left Beersheba, and the children of Israel carried their father Jacob, and their children and their wives, in the chariots that Pharaoh had sent to transport them. 
6 And they also took their livestock and the goods they had acquired in the land of Canaan. And Jacob went to Egypt with all his family. 
7 He took his sons and his sons' sons with him to Egypt, and his daughters and his sons' daughters, and all his family. 
8 These are the names of the children of Israel, who came to Egypt. Jacob and his sons. Jacob's firstborn: Reuben. 
9 Reuben's sons: Hanoch, and Pallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. 
10 Sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman. 
11 Sons of Levi: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. 
12 The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zerah. But Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
13 Sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puvah, and Iob, and Shimron. 
14 Sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel. 
15 These are the sons whom Leah bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the souls of her sons and daughters were thirty three. 
16 Sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, and Shuni, and Ezbon, and Eri, and Arodi and Areli. 
17 The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malkiel. 
18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah. And she bore them to Jacob. In all, sixteen souls. 
19 Sons of Rachel, wife of Jacob: Joseph and Benjamin. 
20 And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath the daughter of Potiphera priest of On bore to him. 
21 Sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Ashbel, and Gera, and Naaman, and Ehi, and Rosh, and Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
22 These are the sons of Rachel who were born to Jacob. In all, fourteen souls. 
23 Son of Dan: Hushim. 
24 Sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem. 
25 These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel. And she bore them to Jacob. In all, seven souls. 
26 All the souls who came with Jacob to Egypt, and who came from him without counting the wives of his sons, were sixty six in all. 
27 And Joseph had two sons born to him in Egypt. All the souls of the house of Jacob who came to Egypt was seventy. 
28 Jacob sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph, to direct his way to Goshen. And they came into the land of Goshen. 
29 Joseph prepared his chariot and went to Gosen to meet Israel, his father. And he came to him, and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck for a while. 
30 And Israel said to Joseph, Let me die now, since I have seen your face and you are still alive. 
31 And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's house, I will go up and say to Pharaoh, My brothers and my father's house have come to me from the land of Canaan. 
32 And the men are shepherds, for they raise flocks. And they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have. 
33 And Pharaoh will call you and say to you, What is your occupation. 
34 And you will answer, Your servants have kept flocks from our youth until now, we and our fathers. In this way you will dwell in the land of Goshen, for all shepherds are an abomination to the Egyptians.
