1 And Yahweh visited Sarah as he had said, and Yahweh fulfilled for Sarah what he had promised. 
2 And Sarah became pregnant, and she bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. 
3 And Abraham gave the name Isaac to the son born to him, whom Sarah bore to him. 
4 Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. 
5 Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born. 
6 And Sarah said, God has made me a laughing matter. Whoever finds out will laugh at me. 
7 And she added, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah will nurse children. However I bore him a son in his old age. 
8 The child grew up and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. 
9 And Sarah saw that the son that Hagar the Egyptian had borne to Abraham was mocking. 
10 And she said to Abraham, Cast out this maidservant and her son, for the son of this maidservant will not inherit with my son, with Isaac. 
11 This word greatly displeased Abraham's sight, because of his son. 
12 But God said to Abraham, Let it not displease you, because of the child and your maid. Grant Sarah whatever she asks of you, for from Isaac will your seed be called. 
13 I will also make a nation of the son of your handmaid, for he is your descendant. 
14 And Abraham got up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder. He also gave her the child, and sent her away. And she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba. 
15 And the water in the bottle was exhausted, she left the child under one of the bushes. 
16 And she went and sat opposite, within a bow's reach. For she said, May I not see my child die. So she sat down opposite him, raised her voice and wept. 
17 God heard the voice of the child, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What is the matter with you, Hagar. Do not be afraid, for God has heard the voice of the child in the place where he is. 
18 Get up, lift up the child and hold him in your hand. For I will make him a great nation. 
19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the bottle with water, and gave the child to drink. 
20 God was with the child, who grew up and lived in the wilderness, and became an archer. 
21 He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took him a wife from the land of Egypt. 
22 At that time Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his army spoke to Abraham by saying, God is with you in all that you do. 
23 Swear to me now here, by God, that you will not deceive me, nor my children nor my grandchildren, and that you will have for me and the country where you are staying the same kindness that I had for You. 
24 And Abraham said, I will swear. 
25 And Abraham reproached Abimelech about a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had taken by force. 
26 And Abimelech answered, I do not know who did this thing. You did not inform me of it, and I only learned of it today. 
27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, which he gave to Abimelech, and they both made a covenant. 
28 Abraham set aside seven young sheep. 
29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What are these seven young sheep, which you have set apart. 
30 He answered, You will accept these seven sheep from my hand, so that it may be a testimony to me that I have dug this well. 
31 And he called that place Beersheba, for there they both swore. 
32 So they made a covenant at Beersheba. And Abimelech rose up with Picol the leader of his army. And they returned to the land of the Philistines. 
33 And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba. And called there on the name of Yahweh, the everlasting God. 
34 And Abraham sojourned a long time in the land of the Philistines. 
