1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. 
2 He created man and woman, and blessed them, and called them by the name of Man when they were created. 
3 Adam, being a hundred and thirty years old, begat a child in his own likeness, according to his image, and called his name Seth. 
4 The days of Adam after the birth of Seth were eight hundred years. And he begat sons and daughters. 
5 And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years. Then he died. 
6 Seth, when one hundred and five years old, fathered Enosh. 
7 Seth lived eight hundred and seven years after the birth of Enosh. And he begat sons and daughters. 
8 And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years. Then he died. 
9 Enosh, when ninety years old, fathered Kenan. 
10 Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years after the birth of Kenan. Ad he begat sons and daughters. 
11 And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years. Then he died. 
12 Kenan, when seventy years old, fathered Mahalalel. 
13 Kenan lived eight hundred and forty years after the birth of Mahalalel. And he begat sons and daughters. 
14 And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years. Then he died. 
15 Mahalalel, when sixty and five years old, fathered Jared. 
16 Mahalalel lived eight hundred and thirty years after the birth of Jared. And he begat sons and daughters. 
17 And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety five years. Then he died. 
18 Jared, when one hundred and sixty two years old, fathered Enoch. 
19 Jared lived eight hundred years after the birth of Enoch. And he begat sons and daughters. 
20 And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty two years. Then he died. 
21 Enoch, when sixty and five years old, begat Methuselah. 
22 And Enoch walked with God during three hundred years after the birth of Methuselah, and he begat sons and daughters. 
23 And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty five years. 
24 And Enoch walked with God and he was no more, because God took him away. 
25 Methuselah, when one hundred and eighty seven years old, fathered Lamech. 
26 And Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty two years after the birth of Lamech, and he begat sons and daughters. 
27 And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty nine years. Then he died. 
28 Lamech, when one hundred and eighty two years old, fathered a son. 
29 And he called his name Noah and said, This one will comfort us for our fatigue and the hard work of our hands which come from this land that Yahweh has cursed. 
30 Lamech lived five hundred and ninety five years after the birth of Noah, and he begat sons and daughters. 
31 And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy seven years. Then he died. 
32 And Noah, when five hundred years old, fathered Shem, Ham and Japheth.
