1 Sarai, Abram's wife, bore him no children. She had an Egyptian servant named Hagar. 
2 And Sarai said to Abram, Behold Yahweh has made me barren. I pray you to go to my servant, for perhaps I will have children through her. And Abram listened to Sarai's voice. 
3 Sarai, Abram's wife, took her servant Hagar the Egyptian and gave her as wife to Abram her husband. It was after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan.
4 And he went to Hagar, and she became pregnant. When she saw herself pregnant, she looked at her mistress with contempt. 
5 And Sarai said to Abram: The outrage done to me falls on you. I have placed my servant in your bosom, and when she saw that she was pregnant, she looked at me with contempt. Let Yahweh be judge between me and you. 
6 And Abram answered Sarai, Behold your servant is in your power, act towards her as you see fit. Then Sarai mistreated Hagar, and Hagar fled from Sarai. 
7 And an angel of Yahweh found Hagar near a fountain of water in the wilderness, near the fountain on the way to Shur. 
8 And he said, Hagar servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going. And She answered, I am fleeing from Sarai my mistress. 
9 And the angel of Yahweh said to her, Return to your mistress, and humble yourself under her hand. 
10 And the angel of Yahweh said to her, I will multiply your descendants, and they will be so numerous that they cannot be numbered. 
11 And the angel of Yahweh said to her: Behold you are with child and will bear a son. And you will call his name Ishmael, for Yahweh has heard you in your affliction. 
12 And he will be like a wild donkey among men. His hand will be against all and the hand of all will be against him. And he will live opposite all his brothers. 
13 And she gave to Yahweh who had spoken to her the name 'You are a God who sees'. For she said, Did I see anything here after he saw me. 
14 This is why the well was called Beer-lahai-roi. Behold it is between Kadesh and Bered. 
15 Hagar bore Abram a son. And Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael. 
16 Abram was eighty six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.
