1 And Joseph gave this command to the steward of his house, Filled with food the bags of these men, as much as they can carry. And put everyone's money at the mouth of his bag. 
2 You will also put my cup in the mouth of the bag of the youngest, the silver cup with the money of his grain. 
3 And the steward did as Joseph ordered. And in the morning, as soon as it was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys. 
4 When they went out of the city and were not far from it, Joseph said to his steward: Get up and go after these men. And when you have reached them you will say to them, Why have you returned evil for good. 
5 Do you not have the cup from which my lord drinks, and with which he deifies. You were wrong to do so. 
6 And the steward reached them and said these same words to them. 
7 They answered him, Why does my lord speak thus. God save your servants from committing such an action. 
8 Behold we have brought you the money, which we found at the mouth of our bags when in the land of Canaan. How could we steal silver or gold from your lord's house. 
9 Let him of your servants on whom the cup is found die, and let us ourselves be slaves to my lord. 
10 And he said: It will be according to your words. Whoever carries the cup will be my slave, and you will be innocent. 
11 And immediately, each put his bag down on the ground, and each opened his bag. 
12 And the steward searched them, beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin's bag. 
13 And they tore their clothes, and each loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city. 
14 And Judah and his brothers came to the house of Joseph, where he still was, and they bowed down to the ground before him. 
15 And Joseph said to them, What action have you done. Do not you know that a man like me has the power to deify. 
16 And Judah answered, What will we say to my lord. How will we speak, how will we justify ourselves. God has found the iniquity of your servants. Behold we are slaves of my lord, we and he on whom the cup was found. 
17 And Joseph said, God forbid that I should do this. The man on whom the cup was found will be my slave, and the others will return in peace to your father. 
18 Then Judah came near to Joseph and said: Oh my lord, let your servant speak a word to my lord. And let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh. 
19 My lord asked his servants by saying, Do you have a father or a brother. 
20 And we answered my lord: We have an old father and a younger brother, child of his old age. This child had a brother who is dead, and he is alone from the same mother, and his father loves him. 
21 And you said to your servants: Bring him to me, so that I may see him with my own eyes. 
22 And we answered my lord: The child cannot leave his father. If he leaves him, then his father will die. 
23 And you said to your servants: Unless your youngest brother comes with you, you will not see my face again. 
24 And when we returned to your servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. 
25 And our father said: Go again and buy us some food. 
26 And we replied: We cannot go again. But if our youngest brother is with us then we will go. For we cannot see the face of this man, unless our younger brother is with us. 
27 And your servant our father said to us: You know that my wife has borne me two sons. 
28 One have left my house, and I think he has been torn in pieces, and I have not seen him again until now. 
29 If you take this one from me again, and something bad happens to him, then you will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow into grave. 
30 Now I cannot return to your servant my father, without having with us the child to whose soul his soul is attached. 
31 For he will die when he sees that the child is not there. And your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to the grave. 
32 For your servant answered for the child by saying to my father: If I do not bring him back to you, then I will bear the blame toward my father forever. 
33 Now therefore I pray you, let your servant remain in the place of the child as the slave of my lord. And let the child goes back with his brothers. 
34 How can I go back to my father if the child is not with me. Let me not see the affliction of my father.
