1 Isaac was growing old, and his eyes were so dim that he could no longer see. Then he called his eldest son Esau and said to him, My son. And he answered him, Here I am. 
2 And Isaac said, Behold now, I am old and I know not the day of my death. 
3 Now therefore, please, take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go into the fields and hunt me venison. 
4 Make me a dish that I like, and bring it to me to eat, so that my soul may bless you before I die. 
5 And Rebekah listened to what Isaac said to his son Esau. And Esau went out into the field and hunt for venison and bring it back. 
6 And Rebekah said to Jacob her son, Behold I heard your father speaking thus to Esau your brother. 
7 And he said, Bring me venison and prepare something for me to eat. And I will bless you before Yahweh before I die. 
8 Now, my son, obey my voice in what I command you. 
9 Go and take two good kids from the herd, I will make them savory food for your father as he likes it. 
10 And you will bring it to your father to eat, so that he may bless you before his death. 
11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. 
12 Maybe my father will touch me, and I will be considered a deceiver in his eyes. And I will bring on me a curse, and not a blessing. 
13 And his mother said to him, May this curse, my son, fall on me. Just listen to my voice, and go and take them for me. 
14 Jacob went and took them, and brought them to his mother, who made a dish that his father liked. 
15 And Rebekah took the clothes of her eldest son Esau, the finest ones that were in the house, and she had them put on Jacob her youngest son. 
16 And she covered his hands with the skin of the kids of the goats, and his neck which was hairless. 
17 And she placed the food and the bread which she had prepared in the hand of Jacob her son. 
18 And he came to his father and said, My father. And Isaac said, Here am I, who are you my son. 
19 Jacob answered his father, I am Esau, your eldest son. I did what you told me. Rise, I pray you, and sit down and eat of my venison, that your soul may bless me. 
20 And Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son. And Jacob said, Because Yahweh your God has brought him before me. 
21 And Isaac said to Jacob, Come now and let me touch you, my son, to know whether you are my son Esau or not. 
22 Jacob came to his father Isaac who touched him and said, The voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau. 
23 He did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy, like the hands of Esau his brother. And he blessed him. 
24 And he said, Are you my son Esau. And Jacob answered, I am. 
25 Isaac said, Serve me, and let me eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless you. And Jacob served him, and he ate. And Jacob also brought him wine, and Isaac drank. 
26 Then Isaac his father said to him, Come now and kiss me, my son. 
27 Jacob came near and kissed him. And Isaac smelled his clothes, then he blessed him and said, Behold the aroma of my son is like the aroma of a field which Yahweh has blessed. 
28 May God give you dew from the sky, and from the fat of the earth. And wheat and wine in abundance. 
29 May peoples be subject to you, and let nations bow down before you. Be the master of your brothers, and let your mother's sons bow down before you. Cursed be everyone who curses you, and blessed be everyone who blesses you. 
30 Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, and Jacob had barely left his father Isaac when Esau, his brother, returned from hunting. 
31 He also made a dish, which he took to his father. And he said to his father, Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, so that your soul blesses me. 
32 And Isaac his father said to him, Who are you. And he answered, I am your eldest son, Esau. 
33 And Isaac was seized with great and violent emotion, and he said, Who then is he who hunted venison, and brought it to me. And I ate everything before you came, and I blessed him. So he will be blessed. 
34 When Esau heard his father's words, he uttered loud cries full of bitterness and he said to his father, Bless me also, my father. 
35 And Isaac said, Your brother has come with cunning, and he has taken away your blessing. 
36 And Esau said, Is it because his name was called Jacob that he has twice supplanted me. He has taken away my birthright, and now he has taken away my blessing. And he said, Have you not reserved a blessing for me. 
37 Isaac answered and said to Esau, Behold I have made him your master, and given him all his brethren to be servants. And I have provided him with wheat and wine. What can I do for you, my son. 
38 Esau said to his father, Do you have only this one blessing, my father. Bless me too, father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. 
39 Isaac his father answered and said to him, Behold your dwelling place will be deprived of the fat of the earth and dew from the sky, from above. 
40 You will live by your sword, and you will serve your brother. But by wandering freely here and there, You will break his yoke from around your neck. 
41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are drawing near, then I will kill Jacob my brother. 
42 Rebekah was told the words of Esau, her eldest son. Then she called Jacob her youngest son and said to him, Behold Esau your brother wants to take vengeance on you by killing you. 
43 Now, my son, listen to my voice. Arise and flee to Haran to my brother Laban. 
44 And stay with him for a while, until your brother's fury subsides. 
45 Until your brother's anger turns away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will bring you back. Why should I be deprived of both of you in the same day. 
46 And Rebekah said to Isaac: I am disgusted with life, because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife like these from the daughters of Heth, among the girls of the country, what is the use of life for me.
