1 Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold, Esau was coming with four hundred men. He divided the children between Leah and Rachel and the two handmaids. 
2 He placed the maids and their children at the head, then Leah with her children, and finally Rachel with Joseph. 
3 He himself passed in front of them, and he bowed down to the ground seven times, until he was near his brother. 
4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and threw himself on his neck, and kissed him. And they wept. 
5 And Esau lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children. And he said, Who are these with you. And Jacob answered, These are the children whom God has granted to your servant. 
6 Then the handmaids came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 
7 Leah and her children also came and bowed down. Then Joseph and Rachel came and bowed down. 
8 And Esau said, What do you intend for this whole camp that I have found. And Jacob said, To find favor in the sight of my lord. 
9 Esau said, I am in abundance, my brother. Keep what is yours. 
10 And Jacob answered, No, I pray you, if I have found favor in your sight, accept my present from my hand. For this is why I have looked at your face as one looks at the face of God, and you welcomed me favorably. 
11 So accept my gift which has been offered to you, since God has filled me with graces and that I lack nothing. He insisted with him, and Esau accepted. 
12 And Esau said, Let us go, let us set out. I will go before you. 
13 Jacob answered him, My lord knows that children are delicate, and that I have nursing sheep and cows. If their march were forced for a single day, the whole herd would perish. 
14 May my lord take the lead over his servant. And I will follow slowly, at the pace of the herd that precedes me, and at the step of children, until I came to my lord at Seir. 
15 And Esau said, I want to leave at least some of my people with you. And Jacob answered, For what purpose, let me find favor in the sight of my lord. 
16 The same day Esau returned to Seir. 
17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and he built a house for himself, and he made cabins for his flocks. This is why the name of this place was called Succoth. 
18 On his return from Paddan-aram, Jacob arrived happily at the city of Shechem in the land of Canaan, and he encamped before the city.
19 And he bought the portion of the field where he had pitched his tent, from the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of money. 
20 And there he raised an altar and called it: The mighty God of Israel.
