1 These are the generations of Esau, who is Edom. 
2 Esau took his wives from among the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite. 
3 And Basemath the daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebaioth. 
4 Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, and Basemath bore Reuel. 
5 And Oholibamah bore Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
6 Esau took his wives, and his sons and his daughters, and all the people of his house, and his flocks and all his beasts, and all the goods that he acquired in the land of Canaan. And he went to another country, far from Jacob his brother. 
7 For their wealth was too great for them to dwell together, and the country where they were staying could no longer suffice for them because of their flocks. 
8 Esau settles in Mount Seir. Esau is Edom. 
9 These are the generations of Esau, the father of Edomites in mount Seir. 
10 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Adah Esau's wife, Reuel the son of Basemath wife of Esau. 
11 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, and Omar, and Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz. 
12 And Timna was concubine of Eliphaz the son of Esau, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife. 
13 These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, and Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
14 And these are the sons of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the wife of Esau: she bore Jeush and Jalam and Korah to Esau. 
15 These are the chiefs of the tribes from the sons of Esau. These are the sons of Eliphaz, Esau's firstborn: chief Teman, and chief Omar, and chief Zepho, and chief Kenaz. 
16 And chief Korah, and chief Gatam, and chief Amalek. These are the leaders from Eliphaz in the land of Edom. They are the sons of Adah. 
17 These are the sons of Reuel, the son of Esau: chief Nahath, and chief Zerah, and chief Shammah, and chief Mizzah. These are the chiefs from Reuel in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
18 These are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: chief Jeush, and chief Jalam, and chief Korah. These are the chiefs from Oholibamah daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. 
19 These are the sons of Esau, and these are their tribal leaders. Esau is Edom. 
20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, former inhabitants of the land: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah. 
21 And Dishon, and Ezer and Dishan. These are the leaders of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom. 
22 The children of Lotan were Hori and Heman. Lothan's sister was Timna. 
23 These are the children of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath and Ebal and Shepho and Onam. 
24 These are the children of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. It was this Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, when he shepherded the donkeys of Zibeon his father. 
25 These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
26 These are the children of Dishon: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran and Cheran. 
27 These are the children of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Akan. 
28 These are the children of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
29 These are the chiefs who came of the Horites: chief Lotan, and chief Shobal, and chief Zibeon, and chief Anah. 
30 And chief Dishon, and chief Ezer, and chief Dishan. These are the leaders of the Horites, their leaders in the land of Seir. 
31 These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there was any king over the children of Israel. 
32 Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
33 And Bela died. And Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
34 And Jobab died. And Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 
35 And Husham died. And Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck down Midian in the fields of Moab, reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Avith. 
36 And Hadad died. And Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
37 And Samlah died. And Shaul from Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
38 And Saul died. And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
39 And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died. And Hadar reigned in his stead. And the name of his city was Pau, and the name of his wife was Mehetabel the daughter of Matred the daughter of Me-zahab. 
40 And these are the names of the chiefs from Esau, according to their tribes, according to their territories, and by their names: chief Timna, and chief Alvah, and chief Jetheth. 
41 And chief Oholibamah, and chief Elah, and chief Pinon. 
42 And chief Kenaz, and chief Teman, and chief Mibzar. 
43 And chief Magdiel, and chief Iram. These are the chief of Edom, according to their dwellings in the land which they possessed. This is Esau, the father of the Edomites.
