1 Abraham was old, well advanced in years. And Yahweh had blessed Abraham in all things. 
2 Abraham said to his servant, the oldest in his house, the steward of all his property, Please put your hand under my thigh. 
3 And I will make you swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, not to take for my son a wife from among the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. 
4 But you will go to my country, my fatherland, to take a wife for my son Isaac. 
5 And the servant answered him, Perhaps the woman will not want to follow me to this land. Will I take your son to the country from which you came. 
6 And Abraham said to him: Be careful not to lead my son there. 
7 Yahweh the God of heaven, who brought me out of my father's house and out of my country, and who spoke to me and swore to me by saying, 'I will give this land to your seed'. He himself will send his angel before you, and from there you will take a wife for my son. 
8 And If the woman does not want to follow you, you will be released from this oath that I make you do. Only you will not lead my son there. 
9 The servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his master, and swore to him to observe these things. 
10 And the servant took ten camels from the camels of his master, and he departed, having at his disposal all the goods of his master. He got up and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor. 
11 And he laid the camels on their knees out of the city, near a well in the evening, at the time when the women go out to draw water. 
12 And he said, O Yahweh, God of my master Abraham, grant me this day what I desire and show kindness to my master Abraham. 
13 Behold I stand by the fountain of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. 
14 Grant therefore that the young girl to whom I will say 'Tilt your pitcher, I pray you, so that I may drink'. And who will answer, 'Drink, and I will also give water to your camels'. Let she be the one whom you have intended for your servant Isaac, and by this I will know that you are kind to my master. 
15 He had not yet finished speaking when came out Rebekah, with her pitcher on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel who was the son of Milcah the wife of Nahor the brother of Abraham. 
16 She was a very beautiful young girl, and a virgin because no man had known her. She went down to the fountain, and filled her pitcher and came back up. 
17 And the servant ran to meet her and said, Let me drink, please, a little water from your pitcher. 
18 She replied, Drink, my lord. And she hastened to lower her pitcher on her hand, and to give him a drink. 
19 When she had finished giving him a drink, she said, I will also draw water for your camels, until they have drunk enough. 
20 And she hastened to empty her pitcher into the trough, and ran again to the well to draw. And she drew for all his camels. 
21 The man looked at her in astonishment but holding his peace, to see if Yahweh made his journey successful or not. 
22 When the camels had finished drinking, the man took a gold ring weighing half a shekel, and two bracelets weighing ten shekels of gold. 
23 And he said, Whose daughter are you. Tell me, please. Is there room in your father's house for us to lodge in. 
24 She replied, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah and Nahor. 
25 She said moreover to him,  We have both straw and fodder enough, and also room to lodge in. 
26 Then the man bowed his head and worshiped Yahweh. 
27 And he said, Blessed be Yahweh the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his mercy and his faithfulness toward my master. As for me, Yahweh has brought me to the house of my master's brothers. 
28 And the young girl ran to tell these things to her mother's house. 
29 And Rebekah had a brother named Laban. And Laban ran outside to the man by the fountain. 
30 He had seen the ring and the bracelets on his sister's hands, and he had heard the words of Rebekah his sister saying, Thus spoke the man to me. He came to the man and behold, he was standing by the camels at the fountain. 
31 And he said, Come in, blessed of Yahweh. Why would you stay outside, for I have prepared the house and a place for the camels. 
32 And the man arrived home. And Laban unloaded the camels, and gave the camels straw and fodder, and water to wash the man's feet and the feet of those who were with him. 
33 And there was set food before him to eat, but he said, I will not eat until I have said what I have to say. Laban replied, Speak. 
34 Then he said, I am Abraham's servant. 
35 And Yahweh has blessed my master greatly, and he has become mighty. For he gave him flocks and herds, and silver and gold, and male and female servants, and camels and donkeys. 
36 And Sarah, my master's wife, bore a son to my master in her old age. And he gave him everything he had. 
37 And my master made me swear by saying, You will not take a wife for my son from among the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose country I live. 
38 But you will go to the house of my father, and to my family, and take a wife for my son. 
39 And I said to my master, Perhaps the woman will not follow me. 
40 And he answered me, Yahweh, before whom I walked, will send his angel with you and will make your journey successful. And you will take for my son a wife from my father's family and house. 
41 You will be released from the oath that you are making to me when you will have been to my family. If they do not give her to you then you will be released from the oath that you are making to me. 
42 So I came to the fountain today and I said: O Yahweh the God of my master Abraham, let the journey that I have undertaken succeed. 
43 Behold I am standing by the fountain of water. The maidens will come out to draw and I will say: Let me drink please, a little water from your pitcher. 
44 One may answer me, Drink yourself, and I will also draw water for your camels. May this girl be the wife whom Yahweh has appointed for my master's son. 
45 Before I had finished speaking in my heart, behold Rebekah came out with her pitcher on her shoulder. she went down to the fountain, and drew. I said to her, Give me a drink, please. 
46 And she hastened to lower her pitcher over her shoulder and said, Drink, and I will also give your camels something to drink. I drank, and she also gave water to my camels. 
47 And I asked her by saying, Whose daughter are you. She answered, I am the daughter of Bethuel, son of Nahor and Milcah. And I put the ring on her nose, and the bracelets on her hands. 
48 Then I bowed my head and worshipped Yahweh, and blessed Yahweh the God of my master Abraham, who led me faithfully, that I might take the daughter of my master's brother for his son. 
49 Now if you want to be kind and faithful to my master, declare it to me. If not, tell me and I will turn to the right or to the left. 
50 Laban and Bethuel answered and said, It is from Yahweh that this thing comes, we cannot speak to you either in bad or good. 
51 Behold Rebecca is before you. Take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master's son, as Yahweh has said. 
52 When Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed down to the ground before Yahweh. 
53 And the servant brought out jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah. He also made rich presents to his brother and his mother. 
54 Afterwards they ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and spent the night. When they were up in the morning, the servant said, Let me return to my master. 
55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the young girl stay with us for a while longer, at least ten days. Then you will leave. 
56 And he said to them, Do not delay me, since Yahweh has made my journey successful. Send me away that I may go to my master. 
57 And they answered, Let us call the girl and consult her. 
58 They called Rebekah and said to her, Do you want to go with this man. She replied, I will go. 
59 And they let Rebekah their sister and her nurse go, with Abraham's servant and his men. 
60 They blessed Rebekah and said to her, O our sister, may you become thousands of myriads, and may your posterity possess the gate of their enemies. 
61 Rebekah stood up with her maids. They mounted the camels and followed the man. And the servant took Rebekah, and departed. 
62 And Isaac came from the way of Beer-lahai-roi, for he dwelt in the land of the South. 
63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the fields at the evening, and he raised his eyes and looked. And behold, camels were coming. 
64 Rebekah also looked up and when she saw Isaac, she got off her camel. 
65 And she said to the servant, Who is this man, who comes into the fields to meet us. And the servant said, It is my master. So she took her veil and covered herself. 
66 And the servant told Isaac all the things he had done. 
67 And Isaac led Rebekah to the tent of Sarah his mother. And he took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. This is how Isaac was consoled after losing his mother.
