1 Dinah, the daughter Leah bore to Jacob, went out to see the girls of the country. 
2 She was seen by Shechem son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country. He kidnapped her, slept with her and dishonored her. 
3 And his heart was set on Dinah, Jacob's daughter. He loved the young girl, and knew how to speak to her heart. 
4 And Shechem said to Hamor his father, Give me this girl as a wife. 
5 And Jacob learned that he had dishonored his daughter Dinah. And as his sons were in the field with his flock, Jacob remained silent until they returned. 
6 And Hamor, father of Shechem, went to Jacob to speak to him. 
7 And the sons of Jacob were returning from the field when they heard the thing. These men were grieved and became very angry. Because Shechem had committed an infamy in Israel while copulating with Jacob's daughter, which should not have happened. 
8 And Hamor spoke to them thus: The heart of Shechem, my son, is attached to your daughter. Give her to him as a wife, I pray you. 
9 Join us, and you will give us your daughters, and you will take ours for yourselves. 
10 You will dwell with us and the land will be at your disposal. Stay and trade and acquire properties there. 
11 And Shechem said to Dinah's father and brothers, Let me find favor in your eyes, and I will give what you tell me. 
12 Demand from me a large dowry and many gifts, and I will give what you tell me. But give me the young girl as my wife.
13 The sons of Jacob answered and spoke cunningly to Shechem and to Hamor his father, because Shechem had dishonored Dinah their sister. 
14 And they said to them: This is something we cannot do, to give our sister to an uncircumcised man. For that would be a disgrace to us. 
15 We will only consent to your desire on the condition that you become like us, and let every male among you be circumcised. 
16 And we will then give you our daughters, and we will take yours for ourselves. And we will live with you, and we will form one people. 
17 But if you do not want to listen to us and get circumcised, we will take our daughter, and we will go away. 
18 And their words were approved by Hamor and Shechem the son of Hamor. 
19 And the young man wasted no time in doing the thing, for he loved Jacob's daughter. And he was respected by everyone in his father's house. 
20 Hamor and his son Shechem went to the gate of their city, and they spoke thus to the people of their city. 
21 And they said: These men are peaceful towards us. Therefore let them dwell in the land and trade there. For the country is big enough for them. We will take their daughters as wives, and we will give them our daughters. 
22 But these men will not consent to live with us, to form one people, only on condition that every male among us be circumcised, as they themselves are circumcised. 
23 Their flocks and their goods and all their livestock, will they not be ours. Let us just accept their condition, so that they stay with us. 
24 All those who had come to the gate of the city listened to Hamor and Shechem his son. And all the males were circumcised, all those who had come to the gate of the city. 
25 On the third day while they were suffering, Simeon and Levi who are two sons of Jacob and also the brothers of Dina, each took his sword. And they fell on the city which thought itself secure, and they killed all the males. 
26 They also slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword. And they took Dinah out of the house and went out. 
27 And the sons of Jacob fell on the dead, and plundered the city, because their sister had been dishonored. 
28 And they took their flocks and their herds and their donkeys, what was in the city and what was in the fields. 
29 And they took all their wealth, their children and their wives, and everything that was in the houses. 
30 Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You trouble me by making me odious to the inhabitants of the land, to the Canaanites and the Perizzites. And I only have a small number of men, and they will gather against me and they will strike me, and I and my house will be destroyed. 
31 And they answered, Will one treat our sister like a prostitute.
