1 Yahweh said to Abram, Go from your country, from your kindred, and from your father's house, to the land that I will show you. 
2 I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a source of blessing. 
3 I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. And all the families of the earth will be blessed in you. 
4 Abram went, as Yahweh had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy five years old when he came out of Haran. 
5 And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son, with all the goods they had and the servants they had acquired in Haran. And they departed to go to the land of Canaan, and they came to the land of Canaan. 
6 And Abram traveled through the land to a place called Shechem, to the oaks of Moreh. The Canaanites were then in the land. 
7 And Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, I will give this land to your seed. And Abram built there an altar to Yahweh, who had appeared to him. 
8 And from there he moved to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and he pitched his tents, having Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to Yahweh, and he called on the name of Yahweh. 
9 Abram continued his walks, going towards the south. 
10 And there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to stay there, for the famine was great in the land. 
11 As he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife: Behold now, I know that you are a woman of a beautiful appearance. 
12 When the Egyptians will see you, they will say, This is his wife. And they will kill me, and keep you alive. 
13 Please say that you are my sister, so that I may be well treated because of you, and my life may be preserved by you. 
14 And when Abram arrived in Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. 
15 And Pharaoh's nobles saw her and praised her to Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. 
16 And he treated Abram well because of her. And Abram received sheep and oxen and donkeys, and male and female servants, and camels and female donkeys. 
17 But Yahweh struck Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, the wife of Abram. 
18 Then Pharaoh called Abram and said: What have you done to me, why did not you tell me that she was your wife. 
19 Why did you say, She is my sister. And I took her for my wife. Now here is your wife, take her and go. 
20 And Pharaoh gave orders to his people. And they send him and his wife away, with all that belonged to him.
