1 And Yahweh appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat at the entrance to his tent during the heat of the day. 
2 He raised his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing near him. And when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the entrance of his tent, and he knelt down and bowed himself to the ground. 
3 And he said, My Lord, if now I have found grace in your sight, please do not pass away from your servant. 
4 Let now a little water be fetched, and wash your feet. And rest yourselves under this tree. 
5 And I will bring a piece of bread, to strengthen your heart. After what you will continue your journey, for this is why you pass by your servant. And they replied, Do as you said. 
6 Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and he said, Quickly, three measures of flour, knead it and make cakes. 
7 And Abraham ran to his herd, took a tender and good calf, and gave it to a servant who hastened to prepare it. 
8 And he took cream and milk, and the calf which he had prepared, and set it before them. And he himself stood beside them under the tree. And they ate. 
9 Then they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife. And he answered, She is there, in the tent. 
10 And one of them said, I will certainly come back to you at this same season, and behold, Sarah your wife will have a son. And Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent, which was behind him.
11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well advanced in age. And Sara could no longer hope to have children. 
12 And Sarah laughed to herself by saying: Now that I am old, will I still have desires. And my lord also is old. 
13 And Yahweh said to Abraham: Why have Sarah laughed and said, 'Will I really have a child, even though I am old'. 
14 Is there anything too hard for Yahweh. At the appointed time I will return to you, at this same season, and Sarah will have a son. 
15 And Sarah lied by saying, 'I have not laughed'. She said this thing because she was afraid. And he replied, 'On the contrary, you have laughed'. 
16 And the men got up to leave, and they looked toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them on the way. 
17 And Yahweh said, Will I hide from Abraham what I am going to do. 
18 Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth will be blessed in him. 
19 Because I have chosen him, so that he may command his children and his house after him to keep the way of Yahweh by practicing righteousness and justice. And thus Yahweh will fulfill in favor of Abraham the promises which he made to him. 
20 And Yahweh said, The cry against Sodom and Gomorrah is increased, and their sin is great. 
21 Therefore I will go down now and see if they have acted entirely according to the report that has come to me. And if it is not, I will know. 
22 And the men departed and went towards Sodom. But Abraham still stood in the presence of Yahweh. 
23 And Abraham came near and said, Will you also destroy the righteous with the wicked. 
24 Perhaps there are fifty righteous people in the midst of the city. Will you also destroy them, and will you not forgive the city for the sake of the fifty righteous who are there. 
25 That be far from you to do this thing, to kill the righteous with the wicked, that it may be for the righteous as for the wicked. That be far from you. Will not the Judge of all the earth exercise justice. 
26 And Yahweh said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous people in the midst of the city, I will forgive the whole city for their sake. 
27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold I have dared to speak to the Lord, I who am nothing but powder and ashes. 
28 Perhaps five of the fifty righteous will be missing. Will you destroy the whole city for the lack of five. And he said, I will not destroy it, if I find forty five righteous there. 
29 And Abraham continued to speak to him, and said, Perhaps there will be forty found there. And he said, I will do nothing because of these forty. 
30 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Perhaps there will be thirty righteous there. And he said, I will do nothing if I find thirty righteous there. 
31 And he said, Behold now, I have dared to speak to the Lord. Perhaps there will be twenty righteous there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the sake of these twenty. 
32 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak no more than this time. Perhaps there will be ten righteous there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the sake of these ten righteous ones. 
33 And Yahweh went away when he had finished speaking to Abraham. And Abraham returned to his dwelling.
