1 Then Joseph fell on his father's face and wept on him, and kissed him. 
2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. And the physicians embalmed Israel. 
3 Forty days passed thus, for that was the length of time needed to prepare those being embalmed. And the Egyptians mourned for him seventy days. 
4 When the days of mourning were past, Joseph spoke to the people of Pharaoh's house by saying, If I have found favor in your eyes, I pray you to report to report to Pharaoh my following words. 
5 My father made me swear by saying, Behold I am going to die, and you will bury me in the tomb which I have dug for myself in the land of Canaan. So I would like to go there and to bury my father, and I will come back. 
6 And Pharaoh answered, Go and bury your father as he made you swear. 
7 And Joseph went to bury his father. And with him came all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house and all the elders of the land of Egypt. 
8 And all the house of Joseph, and his brothers, and his father's house. Only their children and their flocks and their herds were left in the land of Goshen. 
9 There were also chariots and horsemen with Joseph, and the company was very numerous. 
10 And they came to the area of Athad, which is beyond the Jordan. And they uttered great and deep lamentations, and Joseph mourned for his father for seven days. 
11 The inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, witnessed this mourning in the area of Athad. And they said, there is great mourning among the Egyptians. This is why the name Abel-mizraim was given to this area which is beyond the Jordan. 
12 This is how Jacob's sons carried out their father's orders. 
13 They carried him to the land of Canaan. And they buried him in the cave in the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought of Ephron the Hittite as sepulchral property, and which is opposite Mamre. 
14 And after burying his father, Joseph returned to Egypt with his brothers and all those who had gone with him to bury his father. 
15 And Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead and they said, Joseph may hate us and repay us fully for all the harm we have done to him. 
16 And they sent a message to Joseph and said, Your father gave this order before he died. 
17 You will speak thus to Joseph, Oh forgive the crime of your brothers and their sin, for they have done you evil. Now forgive the sin of the servants of your father's God. And Joseph wept when he heard these words. 
18 And his brothers came by themselves and bowed down before him and said, We are your servants. 
19 And Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid for am I in the place of God. 
20 You planned to harm me, and God changed it for good to accomplish what is happening today, and to save the lives of many people. 
21 So have no fear, I will support you and your children. And he comforted them by speaking to their hearts. 
22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's house. And Joseph lived a hundred and ten years. 
23 And Joseph saw the children of Ephraim to the third generation, and the children of Makir the son of Manasseh were born on his knees. 
24 And Joseph said to his brothers, I am going to die. But God will visit you and bring you out of this land to the land that he swore to give to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob. 
25 And Joseph made the sons of Israel swear and said, God will surely visit you and you will bring my bones from here. 
26 And Joseph died when he was a hundred and ten years old. And they embalmed him and put him in a coffin in Egypt.
