1 And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and commanded him, You will not take a wife from among the daughters of Canaan. 
2 Arise, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father, and take there a wife from among the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. 
3 May God Almighty bless you, make you fruitful and multiply you, so that you may become a multitude of peoples. 
4 May he give the blessing of Abraham to you and to your seed with you, so that you may possess the land where you live as a foreigner, and which God gave to Abraham. 
5 And Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Paddan-aram to meet Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau. 
6 Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him to Paddan-Aram to take a wife there, and that in blessing him he had given him this order, You will not take a wife from among the daughters of Canaan. 
7 And he saw that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother, and had gone to Paddan-aram. 
8 Esau thus understood that the daughters of Canaan displeased his father Isaac. 
9 And Esau went to Ishmael. And he took as his wife, besides the wives he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael who is the son of Abraham, and sister of Nebaioth. 
10 Jacob departed from Beersheba and went to Haran. 
11 He came to a place where he spent the night, because the sun had set. And he took a stone there, of which he made his bedside, and he lay down in that place. 
12 And he had a dream. And behold, a ladder rested on the ground, and its summit touched the heaven. And lo, the angels of God were ascending and descending by this ladder. 
13 And behold, Yahweh stood above it and said, I am Yahweh the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you sleep, I will give it to you and to your seed. 
14 Your seed will be like the dust of the earth. You will extend to the west and to the east, and to the north and to the south. And all the families of the earth will be blessed in you and in your seed. 
15 Behold I am with you, and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I said to you. 
16 Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely Yahweh is in this place, and I did not know it. 
17 And he was afraid and said, How terrible is this place. This is the house of God, this is the gate of heaven. 
18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone with which he had made his bedside, and set it up as a monument. And he poured oil on its top. 
19 And he named this place Bethel, but the town was previously called Luz. 
20 And Jacob made a vow by saying: If God be with me and keep me on this journey that I am taking, if he gives me bread to eat and clothes to wear. 
21 And if I return in peace to my father's house, then Yahweh will be my God. 
22 And this stone, which I have set up as a monument, will be the house of God. And I will give you one-tenth of all that you will give me. [Now Jacob says that he will give to other persons who are in need a tenth part of what he receives from his work, and he sets up this stone to be a witness against him if he should ever fail to keep his promise.]
