1 After these things one said to Joseph, Your father is ill. And he took with him his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim. 
2 And also one told Jacob by saying, Your son Joseph is coming to you. And Israel gathered his strength and sat down on his bed. 
3 And Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and he blessed me. 
4 And he said to me, I will make you fruitful, and I will multiply you, and I will make of you a multitude of peoples. And I will give this land to your seed after you for an everlasting possession. 
5 Now the two sons who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, will be mine. Ephraim and Manasseh will be mine like Reuben and Simeon are mine. 
6 But the children whom you have begotten after them will be yours, and they will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. 
7 When I returned from Paddan, Rachel died on the way near me, in the land of Canaan at some distance from Ephrath. And there I buried her, on the way to Ephrath which is Bethlehem. 
8 And Israel looked at the sons of Joseph and said, Who are these. 
9 And Joseph answered his father, These are my sons whom God has given me here. And Israel said, Bring them to me I pray you, and I will bless them. 
10 The eyes of Israel were heavy with old age, and he could no longer see. And Joseph brought them near to him, and Israel kissed them and embraced them. 
11 And Israel said to Joseph, I did not think that I would see your face again and behold, God makes me see even your seed. 
12 And Joseph took them from his father's knees, and bowed down to the ground before him. 
13 Then Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and he brought them near to him. 
14 And Israel stretched out his right hand and placed it on the head of Ephraim who was the youngest, and he placed his left hand on the head of Manasseh. It was with intention that he placed his hands thus, for Manasseh was the firstborn. 
15 And he blessed Joseph and said: The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has guided me all my life until this day bless you. 
16 The angel who delivered me from all evil, bless these children and let them be called by my name and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. And let them multiply abundantly in the midst of the earth. 
17 And Joseph saw with displeasure that his father laid his right hand on Ephraim's head. And he took his father's hand to turn it away from Ephraim's head and towards Manasseh's head. 
18 And Joseph said to his father, Not so my father, for this is the firstborn. Place your right hand on his head. 
19 His father refused and said, I know it my son, I know it. He also will become a people and he also will be great. But his younger brother will be greater than he, and his seed will become a multitude of nations. 
20 And he blessed them that day and said, It is through you that Israel will bless by saying, May God treat you like Ephraim and like Manasseh. And he put Ephraim before Manasseh. 
21 And Israel said to Joseph, Behold I am going to die. But God will be with you and will bring you back to the land of your fathers. 
22 I give you, more than your brothers, a portion which I took from the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my bow.
