1 Abraham departed from there toward the land of the South. And he settled between Kadesh and Shur, and stayed in Gerar. 
2 And Abraham was saying of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and had Sarah taken away. 
3 Then God appeared to Abimelech in a dream of the night and said to him: Behold you are going to die because of the woman whom you have taken away, because she has a husband. 
4 Abimelech had not approached her and he replied: Lord, would you destroy even a righteous nation. 
5 Did he not say to me, She is my sister. And did not she herself say, He is my brother. I acted with a pure heart and with innocent hands. 
6 And God said to him in the dream: I know that you acted with a pure heart, therefore I have kept you from sinning against me. That is why I did not allow you to touch her. 
7 Now return this man's wife, for he is a prophet. And he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you do not give her back, know that you will surely die, you and everything that belongs to you. 
8 And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and he called all his servants and told them all these things. And these people were seized with great fear. 
9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, What have you done to us. And in what way have I offended you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom such a great sin. You have committed acts against me that should not be committed. 
10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What intention did you have in doing that. 
11 And Abraham replied, I thought that there was probably no fear of God in this country, and that they will kill me because of my wife. 
12 Moreover, it is true that she is my sister, daughter of my father. But she is not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. 
13 When God made me wander from my father's house, I say to her, This is the kindness you will show me. In all the places where we go, you will say of me, He is my brother. 
14 And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, servants and maids, and gave them to Abraham. And he restored Sarah his wife to him. 
15 And Abimelech said, Behold my country is before you. Stay where it please you. 
16 And he said to Sarah: Behold I give to your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It will be a veil over your eyes for all those who are with you, and you will be justified in the eyes of all of them. 
17 And Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and his wife and his servants. And they were able to give birth. 
18 For Yahweh had made all the house of Abimelech barren because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.
