1 Jacob set out and went to the land of the children of the east. 
2 He looked, and behold, there was a well in the field. And lo, there were three flocks of sheep resting beside it, for it was at this well that the flocks were watered. And the stone at the opening of the well was large. 
3 All the flocks gathered there, and they rolled the stone from the opening of the well, and the flocks were watered, and the stone was put back in its place on the opening of the well. 
4 And Jacob said to the shepherds, My brothers, where are you from. They replied, We are from Haran. 
5 And he said to them, Do you know Laban the son of Nahor. They answered, We know him. 
6 And he said to them, Is he in good health. They answered, He is in good health, and here is Rachel his daughter who is coming with the flock. 
7 And he said: Behold it is still broad day, and it is not time to gather the flocks. Water the sheep, and go and feed them. 
8 And they said: We cannot, until all the flocks are gathered together. It is then that the stone is rolled from the opening of the well, and the sheep are watered. 
9 And while he was still speaking to them, Rachel came with her father's flock. For she was a shepherdess. 
10 And Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban, the brother of his mother, and the flock of Laban the brother of his mother. And he came near, and rolled the stone from the opening of the well, and watered the flock of Laban the brother of his mother. 
11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept. 
12 For Jacob told Rachel that he was related to her father, and that he was the son of Rebekah. And she ran to tell her father. 
13 When Laban heard of Jacob his sister's son, he ran to meet him, and embraced him and kissed him, and he brought him into his house. And Jacob told Laban all these things. 
14 And Laban said to him, Certainly you are my bone and my flesh. And Jacob stayed with Laban for a month. 
15 Then Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my kinsman, will you serve me for nothing. Tell me what your salary will be. 
16 Now Laban had two daughters, the eldest was named Leah and the youngest was named Rachel. 
17 Leah had delicate eyes, but Rachel had a beautiful face and was well favored. 
18 Jacob loved Rachel and he said, I will serve you seven years for Rachel your youngest daughter. 
19 And Laban said, I would rather give her to you than to give her to another man. Stay with me. 
20 So Jacob served seven years for Rachel. And they were in his sight as a few days, because he loved her. 
21 Then Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife, for my time is fulfilled. And I will go to her. 
22 And Laban gathered all the people of the place and made a feast. 
23 In the evening he took his daughter Leah and brought her to Jacob, who came to her. 
24 And Laban gave Zilpah his maidservant to Leah his daughter, for a handmaid. 
25 The next morning, behold it was Leah. Then Jacob said to Laban, What have you done to me. Was it not for Rachel that I served at your house. Why did you cheat on me. 
26 And Laban said, It is not the custom in this place to give the youngest before the eldest. 
27 End the week with this one, and we will also give you the other for the service that you will still do with me for seven more years. 
28 Jacob did so, and he finished the week with Leah. Then Laban gave him Rachel his daughter to wife. 
29 And Laban gave Bilhah his maidservant to Rachel his daughter, for a handmaid. 
30 And Jacob also went to Rachel, whom he loved more than Leah. And he served with Laban for seven more years. 
31 And Yahweh saw that Leah was not loved, and he made her fruitful while Rachel was barren. 
32 Leah conceived and bore a son, to whom she gave the name Reuben, because she said, Yahweh has seen my humiliation and now my husband will love me. 
33 She conceived again and bore a son, and she said, Yahweh has heard that I am not loved and he also granted me this one. And she called his name Simeon. 
34 She conceived again and bore a son, and she said, This time my husband will be attached to me, for I have borne him three sons. This is why they gave him the name Levi. 
35 She conceived again and bore a son, and she said, This time I will praise Yahweh. Therefore she gave him the name Judah. And she stopped giving birth.
