1 The life of Sarah was one hundred and twenty seven years, these are the years of Sarah's life. 
2 And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba, which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. 
3 Abraham rose up from the sight of the corpse, and spoke thus to the sons of Heth. 
4 I am a stranger and a sojourner among you. Give me possession of a sepulcher in your home, to bury my dead and remove her from before me. 
5 The children of Heth answered Abraham and thus said to him. 
6 Listen to us, my lord. You are a prince of God in our midst. Bury your dead in whichever of our sepulchers you choose. None of us will refuse you his tomb to bury your dead. 
7 And Abraham stood up and bowed down to the people of the land, before the sons of Heth. 
8 And he spoke to them thus, If you permit me to bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and pray for me to Ephron son of Zochar. 
9 That he may give me the cave of Machpelah which belongs to him, at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me so that it may serve me as a sepulchral possession among you. 
10 Ephron sat among the sons of Heth. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham with the following words in the presence of the children of Heth and of all those who entered in at the gate of his city. 
11 No, my lord, listen to me. I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is there. I give them to you, in the sight of the children of my people. Bury your dead. 
12 And Abraham bowed down to the people of the land. 
13 And he spake thus unto Ephron, in the presence of the people of the land, Listen to me, please. I give the price of the field. Accept it from me, and I will bury my dead there. 
14 And Ephron answered Abraham. 
15 My lord, listen to me. A land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between me and you. Bury your dead. 
16 And Abraham understood Ephron. And Abraham weighed out to Ephron the money which he had spoken in the presence of the sons of Heth. Four hundred shekels of silver, money among the merchant. 
17 So the field of Ephron in Machpelah, opposite Mamre, the field and the cave therein, and all the trees that are in the field and in all its surrounding boundaries. 
18 All this became the property of Abraham, in the sight of the children of Heth and of all those who entered through the gate of the city. 
19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah, over against Mamre which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. 
20 The field and the cave in it remained with Abraham as a sepulchral possession, acquired from the children of Heth.
