1 Thus were the heavens and the earth completed, and all that is inside. 
2 God finished his work that he had done on the seventh day. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. 
3 God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it, because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. 
4 Here are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Yahweh God made the earth and the heavens. 
5 And no plant of the field was yet on the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up, for Yahweh God had not caused it to rain on the earth, neither was there a man to till the ground. 
6 But a vapor rose up from the earth, and watered the whole surface of the ground. 
7 And Yahweh God formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. 
8 And Yahweh God planted a garden in Eden on the east side, and there he put the man whom he had formed. 
9 And Yahweh God made to grow out of the ground every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food. And the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. 
10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided into four branches. 
11 The name of the first is Pishon. It is that which surrounds the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. 
12 And the gold of this land is pure. Bdellium and onyx stone are also found there. 
13 The name of the second river is Gihon. It is that which surrounds the whole land of Cush. 
14 The name of the third river is Hiddekel. It is that which flows to the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
15 And Yahweh God took the man and placed him in the garden of Eden to cultivate it and to keep it. 
16 And Yahweh God commanded the man by saying, You may eat of every tree of the garden. 
17 But you shall not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for in the day that you eat from it you will die. 
18 And Yahweh God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper like him. 
19 And Yahweh God formed out of the ground every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man, to see what he would call them. And whatever name man gave to each living being, that was its name. 
20 And the man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beasts of the field. But for man there was not found a helper like him. 
21 And Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs, and closed the flesh in its place. 
22 And from the rib that he had taken from the man, Yahweh God formed a woman and brought her to the man. 
23 And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh, and she will be called Woman, because she was taken from man. 
24 Therefore a man will leave his father and his mother and cleave to his wife, and they will become one flesh. 
25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed.
