1 Joseph was brought to Egypt. And Potiphar, officer of Pharaoh and chief of the guards and Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought it there. 
2 And Yahweh was with Joseph, and prosperity accompanied him. He lived in the house of his master, the Egyptian. 
3 And his master saw that Yahweh was with him, and that Yahweh caused everything he did to prosper in his hands. 
4 And Joseph found favor in the sight of his master, who employed him in his service and established him over his house, and entrusted to him all that he possessed. 
5 As soon as Potiphar had made him ruler over his house and over all that he had, Yahweh blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of Yahweh was upon all that belonged to him, whether in the house or in the field. 
6 And he left everything that belonged to him in Joseph's hand, and he had no other care than that of taking his food. Now, Joseph was handsome in stature and handsome in appearance. 
7 After these things it came to pass that her master's wife looked upon Joseph and said, Lie with me. 
8 He refused and said to his master's wife, Behold my master does not know anything in the house with me, and he has given into my hands all that belongs to him. 
9 He is not greater than me in this house, and he has forbidden me nothing except you, because you are his wife. How could I do such great evil and thus sin against God. 
10 Although she spoke to Joseph every day, he refused to copulate with her or even to be in her company. 
11 One day he entered the house to do his work, and none of the people of the house were there. 
12 Therefore she grabbed him by his garment and said, Copulate with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled outside. 
13 She saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and he had run away outside. 
14 And she called the people of her house and said to them, Behold he has brought us a Hebrew to make fun of us. This man came to me to copulate with me, but I cried out loud. 
15 And when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his clothes next to me and ran outside. 
16 And she laid Joseph's garment beside her, until his master came home. 
17 Then she spoke to him by saying, The Hebrew slave you brought us came to me to make fun of me. 
18 And as I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his clothes next to me and ran outside. 
19 And he heard the words of his wife who said to him, This is what your slave did to me. And Joseph's master was inflamed with anger. 
20 And He took Joseph and put him in the prison, in the place where the king's prisoners were confined. There he was, in prison. 
21 But Yahweh was with Joseph, and he extended his kindness to him. And he favored him in the sight of the head of the prison.
22 And the governor of the prison placed under his supervision all the prisoners who were in the prison. And nothing was done except by him. 
23 And the governor of the prison paid no attention to what Joseph did, because Yahweh was with him. And Yahweh made everything he undertook succeed.
