1 And the two angels arrived in Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom. And when Lot saw them, then he got up to meet them, and he knelt down and bowed himself with his face to the ground. 
2 Then he said, Behold my lords, enter I pray you into the house of your servant. And spend the night there, and wash your feet. And you will get up early in the morning and continue your journey. They replied: No, we will spend the night in the street. 
3 But Lot urged them so much that they came to him and entered his house. He gave them a feast, and baked unleavened bread. And they ate. 
4 They were not in bed yet and the men of the city surrounded the house, the men of Sodom from children to old people. The whole population came running. 
5 And they called Lot and said to him, Where are the men who entered your house this night. Bring them out to us, that we may know them [and copulate with them]. 
6 And Lot went out to them at the door of the house, and closed the door behind him. 
7 And he said: My brothers, I beseech you, do not do evil. 
8 Behold I have two daughters who have never known a man. I will bring them outside to you, and you will do to them what you please. Only, do nothing to these men since they have come to the shadow of my roof. 
9 And they said, Go away. And they said again, This one has come as a stranger, and he wants to judge. We will do to you worse than to them. And pressing Lot violently, they advanced to break the door. 
10 But the men stretched out their hands, and brought Lot into the house to them, and closed the door. 
11 And they struck the men who were at the door of the house with blindness, from the smallest to the greatest, so that they took unnecessary trouble to find the door. 
12 And the men said to Lot, Who do you still have here. Sons in law, sons and daughters, and everything that belongs to you in the city, get them out of this place. 
13 For we are going to destroy this place, because the cry against its inhabitants is great before Yahweh. And Yahweh has sent us to destroy it. 
14 And Lot went out and spoke to his sons in law who had taken his daughters and said: Get up, leave this place, for Yahweh will destroy the city. But in the eyes of his sons in law, he seemed to be joking. 
15 And from the dawn of the day, the angels urged Lot by saying: Get up, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you perish in the punishment of the city. 
16 And as he was lingering, the men took him by the hand, him and his wife and his two daughters, for Yahweh wanted to spare him. They took him away and left him outside the city. 
17 After taking them outside, one of them said: Escape for your life. Do not look behind you, nor stop in all the plain. Run away to the mountain, lest you perish. 
18 And Lot said to them, Oh, not so, my Lord. 
19 Behold I have found favor in your eyes, and you have shown the greatness of your mercy towards me, by preserving my life. But I cannot escape to the mountains before disaster overtakes me, and I will perish. 
20 Behold this city is near enough for me to take refuge there, and it is a small one. Oh let me escape there, is not it small. And may my soul live. 
21 And he said to him, Behold I grant you this grace again, and I will not destroy the city of which you speak. 
22 Hurry to take refuge there, for I can do nothing until you get there. This is why this city was named Zoar. 
23 The sun was rising on the earth when Lot entered Zoar. 
24 Then Yahweh rained on Sodom and on Gomorrah brimstone and fire, from Yahweh out of heaven. 
25 And he destroyed these cities, all the plain and all the inhabitants of the cities, and the plants of the ground. 
26 Now his wife behind him looked back, and she became a pillar of salt. 
27 Abraham rose early in the morning, to go to the place where he stood in the presence of Yahweh. 
28 And he looked towards Sodom and Gomorrah, and throughout the territory of the plain. And behold, he saw the smoke rising from the land, like the smoke of a furnace. 
29 When God destroyed the cities of the plain, he remembered Abraham. And he saved Lot from the midst of disaster, by which he overthrew the cities where Lot had established his abode. 
30 And Lot left Zoar for the height, and settled on the mountain with his two daughters. For he feared to remain in Zoar. And he lived in a cave, he and his two daughters. 
31 And the eldest said to the youngest, Our father is old, and there is no man in the country to come to us, according to the usage of all countries. 
32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, so that we preserve the race of our father. 
33 And they made their father drink wine that night, and the eldest went in and lay with her father. He noticed neither when she lay down, nor when she got up. 
34 The next day, the eldest said to the youngest, Behold I lay last night with my father. Let us make him drink wine again this night, and you will go and lie with him so that we preserve the race of our father. 
35 And they made their father drink wine again that night. And the youngest went and lay with him. He noticed neither when she lay down, nor when she arose. 
36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father. 
37 The eldest bore a son, and she called his name Moab. He is the father of the Moabites to this day. 
38 And the youngest also bore a son, and called his name Ben-ammi. He is the father of the Ammonites to this day.
