1 Abraham took another wife, named Keturah.
2 She bore him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
3 And Jokshan begat Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were the Asshurim, and the Letushim, and the Leummim. 
4 And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida and Eldaah. These are all the sons of Keturah. 
5 And Abraham gave all his possessions to Isaac. 
6 But he made gifts to the sons of his concubines. And while he still lived, he sent them away from his son Isaac, towards the east, into the land of the east. 
7 These are the days of the years of Abraham's life. He lived one hundred and seventy five years. 
8 Abraham expired and died after a happy old age, old and full of days, and was gathered to his people. 
9 And Isaac and Ishmael, his sons, buried him in the cave of Machpelah in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, opposite Mamre. 
10 It is the field that Abraham bought from the children of Heth. There was Abraham buried with Sarah his wife. 
11 After Abraham died, God blessed his son Isaac. He lived by Beer-lahai-roi. 
12 These are the generations of Ishmael, son of Abraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's maid, bore to Abraham. 
13 These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by name, according to their generations. Nebaioth the firstborn of Ishmael, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam. 
14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa. 
15 And Hadad, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah. 
16 These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments; They were the twelve of princes of their nations. 
17 And these are the years of Ishmael's life. One hundred and thirty seven years. And he expired and died, and was gathered to his people. 
18 His sons lived from Havilah as far as Shur, which is opposite Egypt, on the way to Assyria. He established himself in the presence of all his brothers. 
19 And these are the generations of Isaac, son of Abraham. Abraham fathered Isaac. 
20 Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife. 
21 And Isaac implored Yahweh for his wife, because she was barren. And Yahweh heard him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
22 The children collided in her bosom and she said, If so, why am I pregnant. And she went to consult Yahweh. 
23 And Yahweh said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will separate from your bowels. One of these people will be stronger than the other, and the elder will serve the younger. 
24 And when the days where she was to give birth were fulfilled, behold there were two twins in her womb. 
25 The first came out completely red, like a coat of hair. And they called his name Esau. 
26 Then came out his brother, whose hand held Esau's heel. And his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when they were born. 
27 These children grew up. And Esau became a skilled hunter, a man of the fields. And Jacob was a quiet man, who remained in the tents. 
28 Isaac loved Esau because he ate meat, and Rebekah loved Jacob. 
29 As Jacob was cooking soup, Esau returned from the fields, overcome with fatigue. 
30 And Esau said to Jacob, Please let me eat of this red pottage, for I am tired. This is why Esau was given the name Edom. 
31 And Jacob said, Sell me your birthright this day. 
32 Esau answered, Behold I am about to die. What use is this birthright to me. 
33 And Jacob said, Swear to me first. And he swore to him, and he sold his birthright to Jacob. 
34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil soup. And he ate and drank, then got up and left. Thus Esau despised his birthright.
