1 Jacob saw that there was wheat in Egypt and said to his sons, Why do you look at one another. 
2 And he said, Behold I have heard that there is wheat in Egypt. Go there to buy some for us, that we may live and not die. 
3 And ten brothers of Joseph went to Egypt to buy grain. 
4 Jacob did not send with them Benjamin, Joseph's brother, in fear that something bad might happen to him. 
5 And the sons of Israel came to buy food among them that came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. 
6 And Joseph was governor in the country, it was he who sold to all the people of the country. Then Joseph's brothers came and bowed their faces to the ground before him. 
7 And Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he pretended to be a stranger to them and spoke harshly to them by saying, Where do you come from. They answered, From the land of Canaan to buy provisions. 
8 Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. 
9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had concerning them. And he said to them, You are spies. It is to observe the weak places of the land that you have come. 
10 They answered him, No my lord, your servants have come to buy grain. 
11 We are all sons of one man. We are sincere, your servants are not spies. 
12 And he said to them, Not at all, it is to observe the weak places of the country that you have come. 
13 And they replied, We your servants are twelve brothers, sons of one man in the land of Canaan. And behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and there is one who is no more. 
14 And Joseph said to them, I have just told you, you are spies. 
15 This is how you will be tested. By the life of Pharaoh, you will not leave here until your youngest brother comes. 
16 Send one of you to fetch your brother, and the others will be kept in prison. And your words will be tested, and I will know if the truth is with you. Otherwise, by the life of Pharaoh you are spies. 
17 And he put them together in prison for three days. 
18 On the third day Joseph said to them, Do this and you will live. For I fear God. 
19 If you are sincere, let one of your brothers remain locked up in prison. And you will go with wheat to feed your houses. 
20 And bring me your youngest brother, so that your words may be tested and thus you will not die. And they did so. 
21 And they said to one another, We have done wrong to our brother. For we saw the anguish of his soul when he asked us for mercy, and we did not listen to him. This is why this affliction happens to us. 
22 And Reuben answered by saying, Did I not say to you not commit a crime against this child. But you did not listen and lo, his blood is required. 
23 And they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he used an interpreter with them. 
24 And he walked away from them to cry. And he returned and spoke to them. Then he took Simeon from among them, and had him chained before their eyes. 
25 And Joseph ordered that their bags be filled with wheat, and that everyone's money be put back in his bag, and that they be given provisions for the journey. And it was done so. 
26 And they loaded their wheat onto their donkeys and set off. 
27 One of them opened his bag to give fodder to his donkey, in the place where they spent the night. And lo, he saw the money that was at the mouth of the bag. 
28 And he said to his brothers, My money has been returned, and lo, it is in my bag. Then their hearts failed them and they said to each other trembling, What has God done to us. 
29 And they returned to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan, and they told him everything that had happened to them. 
30 The man, who is lord of the land, has spoken harshly to us and he took us for spies. 
31 And we told him, We are sincere, we are not spies. 
32 We are twelve brothers, sons of our father. One is no more, and the youngest is today with our father in the land of Canaan. 
33 Then the lord of the country said to us, Here is how I will know if you are sincere. Leave one of your brothers with me, and take some grain to feed your families and go. 
34 And bring me your youngest brother. This way I will know that you are not spies, and that you are sincere. And I will restore your brother to you, and you will be able to roam the country freely. 
35 When they emptied their bags, behold each man's bundle of money was in his bag. And when they and their father saw their bundles of money, they were afraid. 
36 And their father Jacob said to them, You are depriving me of my children. Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and you will take Benjamin. All these things are against me. 
37 And Reuben said to his father, You will put my two sons to death if I do not bring Benjamin back to you. Place him in my hands and I will bring him back to you. 
38 And Jacob said: My son will not go with you, because his brother is dead and he is left alone. If anything bad happens to him during the journey that you are going to make, then you will make my gray hairs fall with sorrow into the grave.
