1 There was a famine in the land, besides the first famine which took place in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Abimelech king of the Philistines, to Gerar. 
2 And Yahweh appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt, stay in the land that I will tell you. 
3 Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you, and I will bless you. For I will give all these lands to you and to your seed, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham your father. 
4 I will multiply your seed like the stars of heaven, and I will give to your seed all these lands. And all the nations of the earth will be blessed in your seed. 
5 Because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my ordinance, my commandments and my statutes and my laws. 
6 And Isaac remained in Gerar. 
7 And when the men of the place asked about his wife then he said, She is my sister. For he feared that by saying 'she is my wife', then the people of the place would kill him because Rebecca was beautiful in appearance.  
8 As his stay continued, it happened that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window and behold, he saw Isaac who was joking with Rebekah his wife. 
9 And Abimelech called Isaac and said, Surely she is your wife. Why did you say, She is my sister. And Isaac answered him, I spoke thus for fear of dying because of her. 
10 And Abimelech said: What have you done to us. One of the people could easily have slept with your wife, and you would have made us guilty. 
11 Then Abimelech made this ordinance for all the people: Anyone who touches this man or his wife will be put to death. 
12 And Isaac sowed in this land, and this year he reaped a hundredfold. For Yahweh blessed him. 
13 This man became rich, and he got richer and richer, until he became very rich. 
14 He had possessions of flocks and possessions of herds, and a great number of servants. And the Philistines envied him. 
15 All the wells that his father's servants dug in the days of his father Abraham, the Philistines filled them with dust. 
16 And Abimelech said to Isaac, Depart from us, for you are much more powerful than we. 
17 And Isaac departed from there, and camped in the valley of Gerar, where he settled. 
18 And Isaac dug again the water wells which had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, and which the Philistines had filled in after the death of Abraham. And he gave them the same names that his father had given them. 
19 And Isaac's servants dug again in the valley, and found there a well of springing water. 
20 The shepherds of Gerar quarreled with the shepherds of Isaac by saying, The water is ours. And he called the name of the well Esek, because they had quarreled with him. 
21 His servants dug another well, about which a quarrel was also sought. And he called it Sitnah. 
22 And he moved from there and dug another well, over which there was no quarrel. And he called it Rehoboth. For he said, Yahweh has now set us at large, and we will prosper in the land. 
23 From there he went back to Beersheba. 
24 And Yahweh appeared to him in the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham your father. Do not be afraid, for I am with you. I will bless you, and multiply your seed, for the sake of Abraham my servant. 
25 And he built an altar there and called on the name of Yahweh, and pitched his tent there. And Isaac's servants dug a well there. 
26 Then Abimelech came to him from Gerar, with Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the commander of his army. 
27 And Isaac said to them, Why do you come to me, seeing you hate me and have sent me away from you. 
28 They answered, We see plainly that Yahweh is with you. This is why we say, let there be an oath between us, between us and you, and let us make a covenant with you. 
29 Swear that you will not harm us, just as we have not harmed you, and as we have only done you good, and we have let you go in peace. You are now the blessed of Yahweh. 
30 Isaac made them a feast, and they ate and drank. 
31 They rose early in the morning and bonded themselves to each other by an oath. And Isaac let them go, and they left him in peace. 
32 On that same day some of Isaac's servants came and told him about the well they were digging, and said to him, We found water. 
33 And he called it Shibah. This is why the name of the city is Beersheba to this day. 
34 When Esau was forty years old he took for wives Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite. 
35 They were a source of bitterness to the hearts of Isaac and Rebekah.
