1 And Yahweh said to Noah, Enter the ark, you and all your house, for I have seen you righteous before me among this generation. 
2 You will take with you seven pairs of every clean animal, the male and his female, and a pair of every animal that is not clean, the male and his female. 
3 Take the birds of the heavens also by seven, male and female, to keep their kinds alive on the face of the whole earth. 
4 Seven more days to wait, and I will cause it to rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights, and I will destroy from the face of the earth all living thing which I have made. 
5 And Noah did everything that Yahweh commanded him. 
6 Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was on the earth. 
7 And Noah entered the ark with his sons, and his wife and his sons' wives, to escape the waters of the flood. 
8 And there was the clean animals and the animals that are not clean, and birds and everything that moves on the earth. 
9 They entered the ark two by two with Noah, male and female, as God commanded Noah. 
10 And after the seven days the waters of the flood were on the earth. 
11 On the six hundredth year of Noah's life, the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, on that day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. 
12 And the rain was on the earth for forty days and forty nights. 
13 That same day entered Noah, and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark. 
14 They and every animal according to its kind, and all the cattle according to their kind, and every creeping thing that crawl on the earth according to its kind, and every bird according to its kind, every bird of every sort. 
15 They entered with Noah into the ark, two by two, of all flesh that had the breath of life. 
16 They came in, male and female of all flesh, as God commanded Noah. And Yahweh shut him in. 
17 And the flood lasted forty days on the earth. And the waters swelled and lifted up the ark, and it rose above the earth. 
18 The waters swelled and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the waters. 
19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth, and all the high mountains that were under the whole heaven were covered. 
20 The waters rose fifteen cubits above the mountains, and they were covered. 
21 And all flesh that moved on the earth perished, both birds and cattle, and beasts, and everything that crawled on the earth, and every man. 
22 All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all that was on the dry land, they died. 
23 Every living thing that was on the face of the earth was destroyed, from man to cattle, to creeping things, to birds of the heavens. They were destroyed from the earth, and there remained only Noah and those who were with him in the ark. 
24 And the waters prevailed on the earth for a hundred and fifty days.
