1 I was at my watch, and I stood on the tower. I watched to see what Yahweh would say to me, what he would answer me concerning my desire to understand. 
2 And Yahweh answered me and said: Write the prophecy. Engrave it clearly on tablets so that it may be read easily. 
3 For it is a prophecy whose time has already been set. It is near its end and will not lie. Wait for it, although it may delay. For it will surely be fulfilled, it will not last forever. [Write the following sentence.]
4 Behold his soul has swelled up, it is not straight in him, but the righteous will live by his faith. 
5 As wine can trick a person, so the pride of a strong man can fool him. He widens his mouth like hell, he is as insatiable as death. He gathers all nations to himself, he heaps all peoples to himself. 
6 Will he not become a subject of mockery, a parable and a taunting proverb to all. They will say: Woe to him who hoards what is not his. How long can he continue like this. Woe to him who increases his debts. 
7 Will your creditors not suddenly rise up to bite you. Will there not arise one who will humble you and make you his prey. 
8 Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples will plunder you. You have killed many people and destroyed lands and cities, and all the inhabitants who were there. 
9 Woe to him who gathers wicked gain for his house, to set his nest on high and thus hide himself from the hand of evil. [That is to say, the one who believes himself to be safe from want through the possession of wealth which he obtains in a morally despicable way.] 
10 You have thus brought shame on your house, by destroying many peoples. You have sinned against you soul. 
11 For the stone cries out from the wall, and the beam out of the timber will answer it. 
12 Woe to him who builds a town with blood, who establishes a city by iniquity. 
13 Behold when Yahweh the God of armies has purposed it, the peoples labor for the fire and the nations weary themselves for vanity. 
14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh, like the bottom of the sea is entirely covered with water. 
15 Woe to him who makes his neighbor drink [in order to be able to take advantage of him when he is drunk], you who pour out your wineskin and make him drunk in order to access his private parts. 
16 You will be filled with shame rather than glory. You too, drink and strip yourself naked. For the cup from the right hand of Yahweh will be turned toward you, and shame will become your glory. 
17 For the violence that you did in Lebanon will return to you, and the retribution for all the beasts that you have taken away from there. You will be afraid because of the bloodshed and the violence done to the land, to the city and to all its inhabitants. 
18 What is the advantage given by a graven image, what is the justification of one who desires to possess it. What is the advantage given by a molten image which teaches falsity, so that one can desire to possess it and to trust in it. Are they not dumb idols. 
19 Woe to him who says to the wood, 'Awake', or who says to the dumb stone, 'Arise'. Will those things teach you. Behold it is covered with gold and silver, but there is no breath in it to move it. 
20 Yahweh is in his holy temple, let all the earth keep silence before him.
