1 This is the oracle revealed to Habakkuk the prophet. 
2 How long, O Yahweh. I have cried out, but you have not wanted to hear. I have cried out to you concerning violence, but you do not want to help. 
3 Why do you show me iniquity, and cause me to contemplate injustice. For oppression and violence are before me. There are discord, and strife arises. 
4 Therefore the law is ignored, and justice has no power [since you do not want to intervene]. For the wicked triumphs over the righteous, and therefore wicked judgments are executed. [Says Habakkuk.] 
5 Look among the nations and observe, and marvel wonderfully. For I will do in your days a work that you will not believe, although it is told you. [Says Yahweh.] 
6 For lo, I will raise up the Chaldeans, a furious and impetuous people, who will march through vast lands to take possession of dwelling places that are not theirs. 
7 They are terrible and formidable. Their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves. 
8 And their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the wolves in the evening, and their horsemen advance with pride. Their horsemen come from afar, and they fly like an eagle that hasten to devour. 
9 They come for plunder. Their eyes are greedy, and they gather captives like the sand. 
10 This people mocks the kings, and the princes are an object of derision to him. He derides every stronghold, for he will heap dust and conquer it.
11 Therefore his ardor increases, and he continues his march while acting wickedly. It is his own strength that he considers to be his God. 
12 Are you not from everlasting, O Yahweh my God, my holy one. We will not die [that is to say, we the people of Yahweh will not be completely eradicated]. O Yahweh, you have established this people [of the Chaldeans] to execute your judgments. O mighty God, you have established them to execute your punishments. [Says Habakkuk.] 
13 Your eyes are too pure to to see evil [without deciding on a response], you cannot approve wickedness. Why should you look on the transgressors and remain silent, when the wicked devours the one who is more righteous than he. 
14 [And concerning this people whom you are going to raise up], should they act towards men like a person acts toward the fishes of the sea or toward creeping things that have no master. [Now the prophet Habakkuk is questioning Yahweh about something that he does not understand.] 
15 He takes up all of them with the hook, or he catches them in his net and gathers them into his drag. Therefore he rejoices and is glad. 
16 Therefore he sacrifices to his net, and he burns incense to honor his drag, because it is thanks to these things that his portion is fat and his food is plentiful.
17 Will he then continually cast his net, and slaughter the nations without pity. [How can you allow that people to behave this way.]
