1 On the twenty first day of the seventh month [in the seventh year of king Darius], the word of Yahweh came through Haggai the prophet in the following words. 
2 Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and governor of Judah, and to the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak, and to the remnant of the people, and say to them the following thing. 
3 Who is left among you who had seen this house in its former glory. And how do you see it now. Does it not seem like nothing to you, in the appearance that it has now. 
4 Now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says Yahweh. And be strong, O the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak. And be strong, you all the people of the land, says Yahweh, and do the work. For I am with you, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
5 I remain faithful to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt, and my spirit is among you. Do not be afraid. 
6 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Yet a little while, and I will shake the heavens and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land. 
7 And I will shake all nations, and the treasures of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
8 The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, says Yahweh the God of armies.
9 The glory of this last house will be greater than that of the first, says Yahweh the God of armies, and in this place I will give peace, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
10 On the twenty fourth day of the ninth month, in the seventh year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came through Haggai the prophet in the following words. 
11 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Ask now the priests the following question concerning the law. 
12 If someone is carrying consecrated meat in the skirt of his garment, and if this skirt touches any bread, or meat, or wine, or oil, or any other food, then will it be sanctified. And the priests answered and said, 'No'. 
13 Then Haggai said, 'If someone who is defiled by a dead body touches any of those things, then will it be unclean'. And the priests answered and said, 'It will be unclean'. 
14 Then Haggai spoke again and said: So is this people, and so is this nation before me, says Yahweh. And so are all the works of their hands, and the things that they offer here are unclean. 
15 And now, consider carefully what has happened from the time when a stone had not yet been laid on another stone in the temple of Yahweh until this day. 
16 Through all that time, there were only ten measures of grain when they hoped to get twenty measures of grain from a heap. And there were only twenty vessels when they hoped to get fifty vessels from the winepress. 
17 And I have smitten all the work of your hands with blasting, and with mildew, and with hail. 
18 Consider carefully what has happened until this day, until the twenty fourth day of the ninth month, since the day that the foundation of the temple of Yahweh was laid. Consider it carefully. 
19 Are there still seeds in the barns. Even the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate tree, and the olive tree, have not yielded their produce. And now, from this day forward I will bless you. 
20 And the word of Yahweh came again to Haggai on the twenty fourth day of the month in the following words. 
21 Speak to Zerubbabel the governor of Judah and say: I will shake the heavens and the earth. 
22 And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow the chariots and those who ride in them, and the horses and their riders will fall, every one by the sword of his brother. 
23 In that day, says Yahweh the God of armies, I will take you, O my servant Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, says Yahweh, and I will make you as a signet. For I have chosen you, says Yahweh the God of armies.
