1 In the second year of king Darius, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of Yahweh came in the following words by Haggai the prophet, to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and governor of Judah, and to the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak. 
2 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies: This people says, 'The time has not come, the time to rebuild the house of Yahweh'. 
3 Then the word of Yahweh came to them through Haggai the prophet in the following words. 
4 Is it time for you to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house is destroyed. 
5 Now therefore, thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Consider your ways. 
6 You sow much, but you reap little. You eat, but you do not have enough. You drink, but you are not satisfied. You are clothed, but you are not warm. And the hired servant put his wages into a bag that has holes. 
7 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Consider your ways. 
8 Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house. And I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, says Yahweh. 
9 You expected much, and lo, you got little. And when you brought it home, I blew on it. What motivated me to act thus, says Yahweh the God of armies. It is because of my house, for it is destroyed while you run every man to his own house. 
10 Therefore the heavens have withheld their dew from you, and the earth has withheld its produce. 
11 And I called for a drought on the land, and on the mountains, and on the grain, and on the new wine, and on the oil, and on whatever the earth yields, and on men and on cattle, and on all the labor of the hands. 
12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak, and all the remnant of the people, they heard the voice of Yahweh their God through the words of Haggai the prophet, as Yahweh their God had sent him. And the people were afraid of Yahweh. 
13 Then Haggai the messenger of Yahweh for the message of Yahweh to the people spoke and said: I am with you, says Yahweh. 
14 And Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and governor of Judah, and the spirit of the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and worked in the house of their God who is Yahweh the God of armies. 
15 So the began this work on the twenty fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of king Darius.
