1 Hear the word of Yahweh, you the children of Israel. For Yahweh has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth nor mercy in the land, there is no knowledge of God. 
2 There is only publicly unjustifiable deceptions, and murder, and stealing, and adultery. Crimes follow one another without interruption. 
3 Therefore the land will mourn, and every one who dwells there will languish, with the beasts of the field and the birds of the air. Even the fishes of the sea will be taken away. 
4 No one should dispute or rebuke another thus. For your people even dispute with the priest. 
5 Therefore you will stumble during the day, and the prophet will stumble with you during the night, and I will destroy your mother. 
6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you so that you may no longer serve as priest for me. Because you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children. [Now Yahweh punishes the iniquities of parents on children through the quality of persecutions that children must undergo.] 
7 The more they have multiplied, the more they have sinned against me. Therefore I will change their glory into shame. 
8 The priest feed on the sins of my people, they wanted more and more of their sin offerings. 
9 Therefore I will do to the priests as I will do to the people. I will punish them according to their ways, and I will repay them according to their deeds. 
10 They will eat, but they will not have enough. They will commit adultery, but they will not multiply. For they have ceased to pay attention to Yahweh. 
11 Sexual sins, or strong drinks, or new wine, ruin the ability of a person to think clearly. 
12 My people consult their wood, and they let their staff teach them. For the spirit of fornication leads them astray, and they depart from under their God to prostitute their soul. 
13 They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense on the hills under the oaks, and under the poplars, and under the terebinths, because the shadows of those trees are pleasant. Therefore your daughters behave like whores, and your daughters in law commit adultery. 
14 I cannot blame your daughters or your daughters in law for doing this, because your men go and have sex with the prostitutes of the temple of their false gods [in order to worship those gods thus], and offer sacrifices with them. The foolish people destroy themselves thus. 
15 While you play the whore, O Israel, do not incite Judah to sin. Do not go to Gilgal, do not go up to Beth-aven, and do not swear by saying: As Yahweh is alive. 
16 For Israel has rebelled like a stubborn heifer, although Yahweh was feeding them like a lamb in the wide plains. 
17 Ephraim is clinging to idols. Let him alone. 
18 Ephraim has joined their drunkenness. Let them continue to be prostitutes. Let them be with their lovers. 
19 They went to those gods for safety, and they have lost their ability to think. Their sacrifices will bring them shame.
