1 Hear this, you priests. Pay attention, O house of Israel. Give ear, O house of the king. For judgment is against you, because you have been like a trap at Mizpah, and like a net spread on the ground at Tabor.
2 And the revolters have gone deep in making slaughter, but I am a rebuker of them all. 
3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me. For now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore and Israel has defiled itself. 
4 They will not forsake their deeds to turn to their God. For the spirit of fornication is in their hearts, and they do not know Yahweh. 
5 And the pride of Israel testifies against his face. Therefore Israel and Ephraim will fall in their iniquity. Judah also will fall with them. 
6 They will go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Yahweh, but they will not find him. For he has withdrawn himself from them. 
7 They have been unfaithful to Yahweh, and their children are from some stranger. Now in a month he will devour them and their wealth. 
8 Blow the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah. Shout in Beth-aven: The enemy is behind you, O Benjamin. 
9 Ephraim will be devastated in the day of rebuke. I have made known among the tribes of Israel what will happen. 
10 The princes of Judah are like those who move the boundaries to steal land. Therefore I will pour out my anger on them like water. 
11 Ephraim is oppressed, and broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment of man. 
12 Therefore I will be like a moth [that eats clothes] to Ephraim, and like rottenness to the house of Judah. 
13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb for help. But he will not heal you or cure you of your wound. 
14 For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away. I will carry away, and no one will take away my prey. 
15 I will go and return to my place, until they acknowledge their offence and seek my face. In their affliction they will seek me earnestly.
