1 Say to your brothers 'Ammi [my people]', and to your sisters 'Ruhamah [mercy]'. 
2 Argue with your mother. Argue with her because she is no longer my wife, and I am no longer her husband. Tell her to stop acting like a whore. Tell her to take away her lovers from between her breasts. [All this aims to describe the behavior of the children of Israel regarding their covenant with Yahweh, but it is not necessary that the comparison be identical in every aspect of the matter. After the prophet Hosea came to Gomer, she was able to cease her prostitution and conceive three children, and then she continued her prostitution while she was raising these three children. And now, here it is no longer about the children of Gomer but an advice given to the children of Israel.] 
3 Lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and kill her by thirst. 
4 And I will not have pity on her children, because they are children of whoredoms. [Here it is no longer about the children of Gomer but about to the children of Israel who are educated in the love of false gods by their parents.]
5 Their mother has played the whore. She who has conceived them has acted shamefully, for she has said: I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my linen, my oil and my drink. 
6 Therefore behold, I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I will build a wall so that she will no longer find her paths. 
7 She will follow her lovers, but she will not reach them. She will seek them, but will not find them. Then she will say: I will go, and I will return to my first husband because I was happier then than now. 
8 For she has not recognized that it was I who was giving her the grain, and the new wine, and the oil, and who was multiplying her silver and gold which they used to honor Baal. 
9 Therefore I will take away my grain in its time, and my new wine in its season, and I will pluck away my wool and my linen which were to cover her nakedness. 
10 For I will now uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one will deliver her out of my hand. 
11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feasts which are her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies. 
12 And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, concerning which she has said, 'This is my salary that my lovers have given me'. I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field will devour them. 
13 And I will chastise her for the days when she praised the Baalim and burned incense to them, when she decked herself with her earrings and her necklaces in order to go after her lovers and forget me, says Yahweh. 
14 Therefore behold, I will allure her and bring her into the wilderness, and speak to her heart. 
15 And I will give her her vineyards from there, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope. And she will sing there as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
16 And in that day, says Yahweh, you will call me 'Ishi [my husband]', and you will no longer call me 'Baali [my master]'. 
17 For I will take away the names of Baalim from her mouth, and they will no longer be remembered by their name. [Now Baalim are supposed to be gods and are therefore considered as masters, but they are false gods.] 
18 And in that day I will make a covenant for them with the beasts of the fields, and with the birds of the sky, and with the creeping things of the ground. And I will break the bow and the sword [that is to say, the weapons of war that will exist in those days], and the battle out of the earth, and I will cause them to lie down safely. [Now this concerns all those who will be the children of Israel in those days.] 
19 And I will marry you to me forever. Yes, I will marry you to me through righteousness, and justice, and compassion, and mercy. 
20 I will marry you to me through faithfulness, and you will know Yahweh. 
21 And in that day I will answer, says Yahweh. I will answer the heavens, and they will answer the earth. 
22 And the earth will answer the grain, and the new wine, and the oil. And they will answer Jezreel. 
23 And I will plant her for me in the earth, and I will have mercy on her who was not pitied. And I will say to those who were not my people 'You are my people', and they will say 'You are my God'.
