1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He exalted himself in Israel, but he has sinned through Baal and has died. 
2 And now they sin more and more. They have made molten images with their silver, idols of their own invention, the work of craftsmen. And they say of those things: Let the men sacrifice there and kiss the calves. 
3 Therefore they will be like the morning cloud, and like the dew that quickly vanishes, like the chaff that is driven by the whirlwind out of the threshing floor, like the smoke that goes out of the chimney. 
4 But I am Yahweh your God since the time when you were in the land of Egypt. You had not known another God besides me, and there is no savior besides me. 
5 I knew you in the wilderness, in a dry land. 
6 And they have been fed in their pastures, and they have been satisfied. And their hearts have become proud when they were satisfied. Therefore they have forgotten me. 
7 Therefore I will be like a lion to them, I will watch them on the road like a leopard. 
8 I will meet them while being like a bear that has been robbed of her cubs, and I will rend their chests to uncover their hearts, and I will devour them like a lioness. The wild beasts will tear them into pieces. 
9 O Israel, what causes your ruin is that you have been against me, against the one who could help you. 
10 And now where is your king. Let him save you in all your cities. Where are your judges to whom you had said: Give me a king and princes. 
11 I gave you a king in my anger [in the day when the people had asked for a king to be established over them], and I will take him away in my fury. 
12 The iniquity of Ephraim is wrapped up, his sin is placed for judgment. 
13 The pain of a woman giving birth will come on him, for he has been an unwise son. He should not have stayed in the place of the breaking forth of children. 
14 Should I ransom them from the power of Sheol. Should I redeem them from death. O death, where are your plagues. Where is your destruction. For repentance is hidden from my eyes. 
15 Ephraim may be fruitful among his brothers, but the east wind will come, and the breath of Yahweh will rise from the wilderness, and it will dry up its springs, and it will dry up its fountains. They will plunder the treasury of all precious things. 
16 Samaria will be punished because she has rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword. Their little ones will be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women will have their bellies ripped open.
