1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, and of Jotham, and of Ahaz, and of Hezekiah, kings of Judah. 
2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for Yahweh has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, but they have rebelled against me. 
3 The ox knows his owner, and the donkey his master's stall. But Israel does not know me, my people does not understand. 
4 Woe to the sinful nation. For they have become a people laden with iniquity, the seed of the wicked, the spiritual children of dishonesty, since they have forsaken Yahweh. They have despised the holy one of Israel, and they have turned backward. 
5 What new punishment will I inflict on you, when you multiply your rebellions. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart feel faint.
6 From the sole of the foot to the head, nothing is in good condition. For there are only wounds, and swellings, and raw sores. They have neither been wrapped, nor bound up, nor alleviated with oil. 
7 Your land is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, strangers devour your land in your presence. They damage and destroy, like barbarians.
8 But the daughter of Zion will remain like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, like a city left untouched. 
9 If Yahweh had not left us a small remnant, then we would have become like Sodom, and we would have become like Gomorrah. 
10 Hear the word of Yahweh, you the rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law of our God, you the people of Gomorrah. [Now the Lord speaks to the people of the kingdom of Judah who behave as the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah did.]
11 What have I to do with the multitude of your sacrifices, says Yahweh. I have had enough of the burnt-offerings of rams, and of the fat of well-fed beasts. I have no pleasure in the blood of bullocks, and of lambs, and of goats. 
12 Why do you come before me to defile my courtyards by insincerely performing the deeds that should have testified of your contrition.
13 Do not bring me your useless offerings anymore. I am disgusted by your incense, and your new moons, and your sabbaths, and your calling of assemblies. I cannot stand to see crime associated with your ceremonies. 
14 My soul hates your new moons and your appointed feasts. They have become an object of trouble for me, I am weary of enduring them. 
15 Therefore I turn my eyes away from you, when you stretch out your hands. I refuse to listen to you, when you multiply your prayers. For your hands are covered with blood. 
16 Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your doings from before my eyes, cease to do evil. 
17 Learn to do good. Seek justice, relieve the oppressed, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. 
18 Give me your heart now and let us reason together, says Yahweh. Although your sins may be like scarlet, they will become as white as snow. Although they may be red like crimson, they will become like wool. 
19 If you are willing and obedient, then you will eat the good things of this land [which I have given to your fathers]. 
20 But if you refuse and rebel, then you will be devoured by the sword. For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it. 
21 For lo, the faithful city has become a whore. The city was full of justice, and righteousness dwelt in it, but now it is inhabited by murderers. 
22 Your silver has become dross, your wine has been mixed with water. 
23 Your leaders are rebellious and companions of thieves. They all love bribes, and run after rewards. They do not perform justice for the fatherless, and they do not want to listen to the cause of the widow. 
24 Now therefore, thus says the Lord Yahweh, the God of armies, the mighty one of Israel: Aha. I will repay my adversaries, and I will take revenge on my enemies. 
25 I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will remove all kinds of dross among you in order to purify you. 
26 I will restore your judges as they were at the beginning, and your counselors as they were at the beginning. Afterward you will be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. 
27 Zion will be redeemed by justice, and her converts will be saved by righteousness. 
28 And destruction will come on both the transgressors and the rebels. For those who forsake Yahweh will perish. 
29 For they will be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you will blush because of the gardens that you have chosen in order to replace me.
30 For you will be like an oak whose leaves wither, and like a garden that has no water. 
31 He who now thinks that he is strong will be like tow, and his work like a spark. They will both burn together, and there will be no one to quench them.
