1 For lo, the Lord Yahweh the God of armies will take away from Jerusalem and from Judah every support and every source of strength, every source of bread and every source of water. 
2 The strong man and the man of war, the judge and the prophet, the prudent and the elder. 
3 The captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counselor, and the expert craftsman, and the eloquent orator. 
4 And I will give them young men to be their leaders, and children will rule over them. 
5 The people will oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor. The child will behave himself proudly against the old man, and the vile against the honorable. 
6 And a man will seize his brother in his father's house, and will say: You have a garment. Now therefore, be our leader and take these ruins in your hand. 
7 In that day he will answer: I cannot be a helper. For there is neither bread nor clothing in my house. Do not make me ruler of the people. 
8 Jerusalem is tottering, and Judah is falling, because their words and their deeds are against Yahweh. They have provoked the eyes of his majesty. 
9 The look of their countenance testifies against them. They declare their sin like Sodom, they did not hide it. Woe to their souls, for it is against themselves that they have done evil. 
10 Say to the righteous that they will prosper, for they will eat the fruit of their works. 
11 Woe to the wicked. For he will be in misfortune, since he will be rewarded according to the work of his own hands. 
12 The oppressors of my people are children, and women rule over them. O my people, those who lead you have caused you to err. For the way of your paths is destined to be destroyed. 
13 Yahweh stands to plead, he stands to judge the people. 
14 Yahweh enters into judgment with the elders of his people, and with the princes [leaders] of his people. And he says: You have devoured the vineyard, and the spoil that you have taken from the poor is in your houses. 
15 The Lord Yahweh the God of armies says: What right have you to crush my people to pieces, and to grind the faces of the poor. 
16 And Yahweh says: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched out necks and with impudent eyes, walking with affectedly small steps and seeking to make sounds with their feet. 
17 Therefore the Lord will cause the heads of the daughters of Zion to become bald, and Yahweh will expose their private parts. 
18 In that day the Lord will take away the ornaments of their feet, and their waist chain, and their necklaces. 
19 And their earrings, and their bracelets, and their veils. 
20 And their tiaras, and the ornaments of their legs, and their sashes, and their perfume boxes, and their amulets. 
21 And their rings, and their nose rings. 
22 And their sumptuous clothes, and their tunics, and their shawls, and their curling pins. 
23 And their mirrors, and their fine linen, and their turbans, and the light coats. 
24 And there will be a stench instead of perfume, and a rope instead of a girdle, and baldness instead of curly hair, and a sackcloth instead of a robe, and burning instead of beauty. 
25 Your men will fall by the sword, and your warriors in the battle.
26 And her gates will mourn and lament, and she will be desolate and will sit on the ground.
