1 Hear this, O house of Jacob, you who are called by the name of Israel and have come out of the waters of Judah [that is to say, you simply have genealogical or spiritual connections with the tribe of Judah]. You who swear by the name of Yahweh, and speak of the God of Israel, but without truth and without righteousness. 
2 For they are called by the name of the holy city, and they pretend to rely on the God of Israel whose name is Yahweh the God of armies. 
3 I had declared the former things long before. They had gone out of my mouth, and I had announced them. And subsequently, I acted suddenly and they happened. 
4 For I knew that you are obstinate. Your neck is a tendon of iron, and your forehead is of brass. 
5 Therefore I had told you these things long ago. I had declared them to you before they have happened, so that you would not say: My idol has done them. It is my graven image or my molten image who has ordered them. 
6 You had heard my predictions, and afterward you have seen that they have been fulfilled. Should you not declare it. And now I am telling you new things, hidden things, things that you did not know. 
7 They are happening now, they are not of the past. And you had no knowledge of them before this day, and therefore you cannot say: Behold I knew it. 
8 For you had not heard of it, you did not know it. These new things had not been spoken in your ears previously. For I knew that you will act treacherously, and it is from the womb that you have been called a rebel. 
9 I have deferred my wrath for the sake of my name. It is becauce of my praise that I have refrained from destroying you. 
10 Behold I have refined you, but not like silver. I have probed you in the furnace of affliction. 
11 It is for the love of myself that want to act, for the love of myself. For why should my name be defiled. I will not give my glory to another. 
12 Listen to me, O Jacob and Israel, you who are called to be my servants. I am he. I am the first, and I am also the last.
13 My hand has laid the foundations of the earth, and my right hand has stretched out the heavens. I call to them, and they stand up together. 
14 Assemble yourselves, all of you, and listen. Who among them has declared these things. The one whom Yahweh loves will perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm will be against the Chaldeans. 
15 I am the one who has spoken it. I will call him, and I will lead him, and his work will prosper. 
16 Come near to me and listen to this: I have not spoken in secret since the beginning. I have been there since the time when these things have been done, and now the Lord Yahweh and his spirit have sent me. 
17 Thus says Yahweh your redeemer, the holy one of Israel: I am Yahweh your God, the one who instructs you for your good. I will lead you in the way that you should go. 
18 Oh, if only you would pay attention to my commandments. Your peace would be like a river, and your prosperity like the waves of the sea. 
19 Your seed would be like the sand, and the fruit of your body like the grains of sand. Your name would not be blotted out or destroyed before me. 
20 Get out of Babylon, flee from the Chaldeans. Declare the following thing with a joyful voice, proclaim it in order to make it known to the ends of the earth: Yahweh has redeemed his servant Jacob. 
21 They were not thirsty when he led them through the wilderness. He caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them, he did split the rock and the waters gushed out. 
22 There is no peace for the wicked, says Yahweh.
