1 In the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. 
2 And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh with a great army from Lachish to king Hezekiah at Jerusalem. And Rabshakeh came and stood near the aqueduct of the upper pool which is on the way to the fuller's field. 
3 Then came forth to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and steward of the king's household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph and recorder.
4 And Rabshakeh said to them, Go and tell Hezekiah: Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria. What is this confidence on which you rely.
5 You are saying now: I have counsel and strength for the war. But you are deceiving yourself. In whom have you put your trust so that you have rebelled against me.
6 Lo now, you may trust in the staff of Egypt. But it is a broken reed, and if anyone leans on it then it will pierce his hand and enter it. Thus is Pharaoh king of Egypt for all those who trust in him.
7 Perhaps you will say to me, We trust in Yahweh our God. But is it not he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has destroyed. And Hezekiah has said to Judah and Jerusalem, You will worship only at that altar [which is in Jerusalem]. [Now Rabshakeh did not know all the details of the Jewish law and he thought that Hezekiah has offended his God by acting in this way.] 
8 Now therefore make an agreement with my lord the king of Assyria. And then I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able to set riders on them.
9 But even after this you will not be able to defeat the smallest captain among the servants of my lord. So how can you think that the chariots and horsemen of Egypt will be able to save you.
10 Is it without the will of Yahweh that I have come up now against this place to destroy it. Know that Yahweh said to me: Go up against this land and destroy it. [Now he was deceived in the same way that Yahweh had sent an angel to deceive the prophets of king Ahab the son of Omri, as it had been revealed by the prophet Micaiah.]
11 Then Eliakim, and Shebna, and Joah, they said [they agreed to say] to Rabshakeh: Talk to your servants in the Syrian language because we understand it. And do not speak with us in the language of the Jews, lest the people who are on the wall hear it.
12 But Rabshakeh answered: Has my master sent me with these words only to you and to your master. Has he not sent me to the men who are sitting on the wall to eat their excrement and to drink their urine with you.
13 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried out with a loud voice in the Jewish language, and said: Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria.
14 Thus speaks the king: Let not Hezekiah deceive you, because he will not be able to save you.
15 And let not Hezekiah make you trust in Yahweh by saying: Yahweh will surely save us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
16 Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus speaks the king of Assyria: Make peace with me, and come out to me. And then each of you will eat of his own vine and of his own fig tree, and everyone will drink the water of his own well.
17 Until I come to bring you in another land that will be like your own land, in a land of wheat and wine, a land of bread and vineyards. 
18 Let not Hezekiah deceive you by saying, 'Yahweh will save us'. Has any of the gods of the nations saved his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria.
19 Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad. Where are the gods of Sepharvaim. Has any god saved Samaria out of my hand.
20 Who is the one who saved his country out of my hand among all the gods of these lands, so that you may think that Yahweh will save Jerusalem out of my hand.
21 But they kept silent and did not answer him a word. For the king had commanded them by saying: You will not answer him.
22 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and steward of the king's household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph and recorder, they came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and reported to him the words of Rabshakeh.
