1 The prophecy about the valley of vision. What has caused all your people to go up to the housetops. 
2 You was a noisy city full of tumult, O joyous city. And now people have been killed, and they have not perished by the sword or in battle. 
3 All your leaders have fled together from the bow, but they have been taken captive. All those of your people who had fled far away have been captured. 
4 Therefore I say: Turn away your eyes from me, for I will weep bitterly. Do not insist on comforting me concerning the destruction of the daughter of my people [namely the city of Jerusalem]. 
5 For it is a day of trouble and of confusion in the valley of visions, from the Lord Yahweh the God of armies. Some trample on others, the walls have been broken down, and the cry of distress has gone to the mountain. 
6 And Elam has sent the quivers of arrows, with chariots of warriors and horsemen, and Kir has uncovered its shields. 
7 Your beautiful valleys are filled with chariots, and the horsemen set themselves in array at your gates. 
8 The last fortifications of Judah are broken, and on this day you examine the armor of the house of the forest. 
9 You consider the many breaches made in the city of David, and you gather together the waters of the lower pool. 
10 You count the houses of Jerusalem, and you destroy some of them to fortify the wall. 
11 And you make a reservoir between the two walls, for the waters of the old pool. But you do not look to him who has caused these things to happen, you do not see the one who has prepared them long ago. 
12 In that day the Lord Yahweh the God of armies calls you to weep and to mourn, and to shave your heads, and to wear sackcloths. 
13 And behold, there is joy and gladness. They kill oxen and sheep, and they eat flesh and drink wine. And they say: Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die. 
14 Therefore Yahweh the God of armies has revealed to me the following thing: This iniquity will not be forgiven them, until they die. The Lord Yahweh the God of armies has spoken it. 
15 Thus says the Lord Yahweh the God of armies: Go to this treasurer, to Shebna who is steward of the house [of the king]. 
16 And you will say to him: What have you to do here, and who do you have here, so that you are hewing a sepulcher for yourself here. You hew out a sepulcher for yourself in the high places, and you dig your dwelling in the rock. 
17 And behold, Yahweh will hurl you violently and he will wrap you. 
18 And he will surely roll you like a ball to send you into a large country. And there you will die, and there the chariots of your glory will be the shame of your lord's house. 
19 I will drive you from your office. Yahweh will uproot you from your place. 
20 And in that day I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah. 
21 And I will clothe him with your apparel, and I will gird him with your belt [that is to say, I will give him your office]. I will give him your job, and he will be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. 
22 And I will lay the key of the house of David on his shoulder. No one will shut when he opens, and no one will open when he shuts. 
23 And I will fasten him like a nail in a secure place, and he will be a seat of glory for his father's house. 
24 And they will hang on him all the glory of his father's house, both the great and the small of their offsprings. He will be like a store containing various precious objects, from vases and cups to musical instruments. 
25 In that day, says Yahweh the God of armies, the nail that is now fasten in the secure place will be removed. It will be cut and it will fall, and the burden that is on it will be destroyed. For Yahweh has spoken it.
