1 The righteous perish, and no man considers it in his heart. The good men are taken away, and no one understands that the righteous is taken away from the evil that dominates the world. 
2 For the one who has walked uprightly will come into peace. They will enjoy their rest on their beds in heavenly places. 
3 As for you, you the [spiritual] children of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and of the whore. Come near and listen. 
4 Who are you mocking. Against whom do you open widely your mouth and stick out your tongue. Are you not the children of the transgression, a seed of the falseness.
5 For I see that your desire is to defile your soul near the oaks, and under every green tree, and to kill children in the valleys and under the clefts of the rocks. 
6 Your portion is among the smooth stones of the streams. There is your lot, yes it is there. It is there that you pour out drink offerings and offer grain offerings. Can I be unconcerned by this behavior. 
7 You have prepare your bed on a high mountain, and you go up there to offer sacrifices.
8 You do not look for any memory of me when you pass through the doors and doorposts of your house. For you have uncovered yourself for someone other than me, and you have gone up. You have enlarged your bed, and have made a covenant with them. You have loved their bed where you have seen it. 
9 You go to your new kings with oil, after having increased your perfumes. You send your messengers far and wide, you lower yourself to hell. 
10 You become weary because of your journey, and nevertheless you do not say, 'I will give up'. You seek all the remaining strength of your hand, therefore you are not discouraged.
11 Who are you afraid of, and who is the one who terrifies you, so that you do not remember me and direct your heart toward me. Is it not because I have been refraining from punishing you for a long time that you are not afraid of me. 
12 I will proclaim what your righteousness is, and your works will not profit you. 
13 You will cry out, and the multitude of your idols will not save you. The wind will carry them all away, for their dwelling is vanity. But whoever trusts in me will possess the land and inherit my holy mountain. 
14 For I say: Make a way, make a way, prepare the way. Remove every stumbling block from the path of my people. 
15 For thus says the Most High whose dwelling is eternal and whose name is holy: I dwell in the high places and in holiness. But I am with each of those who have contrite and humble spirits, in order to revive the spirits of the humble persons and to revive the hearts of the contrite persons. 
16 I do not want to rebuke you continuously [concerning a same transgression], nor keep an endless anger, when spirits grow weak before me, the souls that I have made. 
17 I have become angry and I have smitten him because of his wicked greed. I have hidden my face because of my indignation, and the rebellious man has followed the way of his heart. 
18 And I have seen his ways, and I will heal him. I will guide him and I will comfort him, him and those who are sad for him.
19 I will put praise on the lips. Peace, peace to those who are far off and to those who are near, says Yahweh. I will heal them. 
20 But the wicked are like a troubled sea that cannot rest and whose waters cast up mire and dirt.
21 There is no peace for the wicked, says my God.
