1 Keep silent and listen to me, O islands. Let the peoples renew their strength in future times, and let them come near to answer. Let us come near and reason together. 
2 Who has raised up from the east the one whom righteousness will call to its foot. Who has given the nations to him and has made him ruler over kings. His sword has reduced them to dust, and his bow to scattered stubble. 
3 He has pursued them, and walked with success in a path that his feet had never trodden. 
4 Who has planned and performed these things. It is the one who has called the generations from the beginning. I Yahweh, I am the first and I am the same with those who are last. [I am the same in all generations.] 
5 The islands have seen it, and they were afraid. The ends of the earth have trembled. They approached and came, but despite this they continued to make false gods for themselves. 
6 They help one another, and each one says to his brother: Be strong and have courage. 
7 The sculptor encourages the founder. And the one who polishes with a hammer encourages the one who smites at the anvil. And this last worker says of the soldering, 'It is good'. And he fastens the new god with nails, so that it may not be moved without a completely voluntary action of a person. 
8 As for you, Israel my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen. All of you, the [spiritual] children of Abraham my friend. [For it is prescribed in my law that foreigners can convert in order to do the commandments given to the families of Jacob.] 
9 All of you whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, whom I have called from all its corners, to whom I have said: You are my servant, I have chosen you and will not reject you.
10 Do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be discomforted, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you. I will sustain you with my righteous right hand. 
11 And behold, all those who are angry with you will be bewildered and put to shame. Those who fight against you will be brought to nothing and will perish. 
12 You will seek them but will not find them, those who quarrel with you. For they will become like nothing. Those who war against you will become like a thing of nought. 
13 For I am the Lord your God, the one who strengthens your right hand and who says to you: Do not be afraid, I will help you. 
14 Do not be afraid, you the spiritual children of Jacob who are as fragile as a worm, you the men of Israel. For I will help you, says Yahweh. I am your redeemer, the holy one of Israel.
15 Behold, I will make you a new threshing instrument, sharp and toothed. You will thresh the mountains and grind them into dust, and beat the hills into chaff. 
16 You will winnow them, and the wind will carry them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. And you will rejoice in Yahweh, you will glory in the holy one of Israel. 
17 The poor and needy seek water, but there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst. I Yahweh will answer them. I the God of Israel will not forsake them. 
18 I will open rivers on the hills, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will turn the wilderness into a pool of water, and the dry land into streams of water. 
19 I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, and the acacia, and the myrtle, and the olive tree. I will plant in the wilderness the fir tree, and the elm, and the box tree, all together. 
20 And they will see and know, they will consider and understand together that the hand of Yahweh has done this thing. They will understand that the holy one of Israel has created it. 
21 As for you who follow other gods. Defend your cause, says Yahweh. Bring forth your strong justifications, says the king of Jacob. 
22 Let your gods come forth and declare to us what will happen. Let them show the things of the past that they had foretold, so that we may consider those things and know when they had come true. Or let them tell us what will happen in the future. 
23 Declare the things that will happen in the future, so that we may know that you are gods. Declare something, whether good or bad, and carry it out without the intermediary of anyone, so that we may look at it together and fear you. 
24 Behold you have no value, and your work is in worthlessness. It is an abomination to take pleasure in you. 
25 I raised him up from the north, and he will come from the east, and he will call on my name. He will trample down the mighty like wet clay, like the potter tramples the mud under his feet. 
26 Who has declared this thing previously, so that we may know his power. Who has announced it in the past, so that we may say, 'It is true'. No one has declared it, no one has foretold it, and no one has heard a word from your false gods. 
27 I was the first to say to [the daughter of] Zion: Behold, behold these things. I will give to Jerusalem a messenger who will bring a good news. 
28 I looked, and there was no one among those false gods who could be worthy of being worshipped, there was no counsellor. I asked, and they could not answer a word. 
29 Behold, they are all vanity. Their works are worthless, their molten images are wind and confusion.
