1 And now thus says Yahweh who created you, O Jacob, the one who formed you, O Israel: Do not fear, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by your name, you are mine. 
2 I will be with you when you pass through the waters. You will not be overwhelmed when you pass through the rivers. You will not be burned when you walk through the fire, the flame will not scorch you. 
3 For I am Yahweh your God, the holy one of Israel, your savior. I gave Egypt for your ransom, I gave Ethiopia and Seba for you. 
4 For you are precious in my sight. You have been honorable, and I have loved you. I will give men in your place, and peoples for your soul. 
5 Do not fear, for I am with you. I will bring forth your seed from the east, and gather you from the west. 
6 I will say to the north, 'Give'. And to the south, 'Do not retain'. Bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth. 
7 Free every one who is called by my name. For I have created him for my glory, I have formed him and I have instructed him.
8 Bring out the blind people who have eyes, and the deaf who have ears. [Enlighten them.] 
9 Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled. Who among them has declared these things. Who have made us hear the former predictions. Let them bring their witnesses in order to be justified, so that we may hear and say: It can be true. 
10 You are my witnesses, says Yahweh. You are my servant whom I have chosen so that you may know me, and trust me, and understand that I am he. No God was formed before me, and there will be no other after me. 
11 I, even I, am Yahweh, and beside me there is no savior. 
12 I have declared, and I have rescued, and I have prophesied. This has not been done by a strange god among you. Therefore you are my witnesses that I am God, says Yahweh. 
13 I have been God from the beginning, and no one can deliver from my hand. I will act, and who can thwart it. 
14 Thus says Yahweh, your redeemer, the holy one of Israel: For your sake I will send the enemy against Babylon, and I will bring down all the fugitives of the Chaldeans on the ships with which they boasted. 
15 I am Yahweh, your holy one, the creator of Israel, your king. 
16 Thus says Yahweh, the one who made a way in the sea and a path in the mighty waters.
17 He who sent out chariots and horses [of the Egyptians], an army and valiant warriors who were suddenly laid down together so as to never rise again, destroyed and extinguished like a wick. 
18 Do not be saddened by the sufferings of the past, do not lament about old things. 
19 Behold I will do a new thing, and it is about to occur. Will you not know it. I will make a way in the wilderness, and rivers will flow through the dry land. 
20 The beasts of the field will glorify me, the jackals and the ostriches. Because I have given waters in the wilderness, rivers in the dry land to give drink to my people who is my chosen. 
21 The people whom I have formed for myself will declare my praise. 
22 But you have not called on me, O Jacob. For you have been weary of me, O Israel. 
23 You have not brought me of your sheep for burnt offerings, and you have not honored me with your sacrifices [of peace offerings]. I have not been angry in response to the absence of your offerings or in response to the absence of your incense. 
24 You have not used your money to buy things and offer them to me, you have not satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have tormented me with your sins, you have wearied me with your iniquities. 
25 For I, even I, am the one who clears your transgressions. It is for my own sake that I will no longer remember your sins. 
26 Remember all that I have done, let us reason together. Speak for yourself in order to be justified. 
27 Your first father has sinned, and your teachers have transgressed against me. 
28 Therefore I have profaned the rulers of the sanctuary. I will give [the tribes of] Jacob to destruction. Yes, the children according to the flesh of him whom I have called Israel will become a subject of disapproval.
