1 I will sing to my beloved a song of my love for his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard, on a very fruitful hill. 
2 And he dug the ground, and gathered out its stones, and planted the best vine there. And he built a tower in its middle, and he made a winepress there. Then he hoped that it would bring forth good grapes, but it brought forth wild grapes. 
3 Now therefore, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, I pray you to judge between me and my vineyard. 
4 What is a thing that I could have done more for my vineyard and that I have not done. Why has it bring forth wild grapes when I hoped that it would bring forth good grapes. 
5 Now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away its hedge, and it will be grazed. I will break down its fence, and it will be trampled down. 
6 I will reduce it to ruin. It will not be pruned or tilled, and briers and thorns will grow up in it. And I will command the clouds, and they will not make rain fall on it. 
7 The vineyard of Yahweh the Go of armies is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his beloved plant. He hoped for justice, but behold, there is blood. He hoped for righteousness, but behold, there are cries of distress. 
8 Woe to those who add house to house, and join field to field, until there is no place for anyone else, in order to dwell alone in the midst of the land. 
9 This is what Yahweh the God of armies has revealed to me: These many houses will surely be desolate, these great and beautiful houses will will be empty.
10 And ten acres of vineyard will yield only a bath, and a homer of seed will yield only an ephah. 
11 Woe to those who rise up early in the morning in order to follow drunkenness, and who stay awake at night in order to be warmed by wine. 
12 While listening to the harp, and the lute, and the tambourine, and the flute, and the wine of their drink. For they do not consider the work of Yahweh, and they do not look at the operation of his hands.
13 Therefore my people will be taken captive, because they have no knowledge. Their nobles will die of hunger, and their multitude will be dried up by thirst. 
14 Therefore Sheol [the place of the dead] will open its mouth, and widen its jaws beyond measure. And there will descend their glory, and their multitude, and their tumults, and those who rejoice among them.
15 The small will be brought down, and the great will be humbled, and the eyes of the haughty will be humbled. 
16 For Yahweh the God of armies will be exalted by justice. The holy one will be sanctified by righteousness. 
17 And the lambs will feed wherever they want as in their own pasture, and wanderers will eat from the abandoned fields of the rich. 
18 Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of wickedness, and sin as with chariot strings. 
19 For they say: Let him speed. Let him hasten his work so that we may see it. Let the decree of the holy one of Israel come and be done, so that we may know it. 
20 Woe to those who speak good of evil, and evil of good. Those who consider that the darkness is a light, and that the ways of the light are dark. Those for whom bitterness is sweet, and sweetness is bitter. 
21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, and who are prudent in their own sight [that is to say according to their own criteria]. 
22 Woe to those who are valiant to drink wine, and valiant to mix strong drinks [in order to get drunk]. 
23 Those who justify the wicked for a reward, and take away the justice which is due to the righteous.
24 Therefore as the flame of fire devours the stubble, and as the flame consumes the dry grass, so their root will be like rottenness and their blossom will fade away like dust. For they have rejected the law of Yahweh the God of armies, and have despised the word of the holy one of Israel. 
25 Therefore the anger of Yahweh is kindled against his people, and he has stretched out his hand against them, and has smitten them. The mountains have trembled, and their dead bodies were as dung in the midst of the streets. And despite all that, his anger was not turned away and his hand was stretched out again. 
26 And he will lift up an ensign for the nations who are far away, and will hiss to call them from the ends of the earth. And behold, they will hasten and come swiftly. 
27 None of them will be weary or stumble. None of them will slumber or sleep. The girdle of their waist will not be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken. 
28 Their arrows will be sharp, and all their bows will be ready to shoot. The hooves of their horses will be like flints, and their chariot wheels like a whirlwind. 
29 Their roars will be like that of lions, they will roar like young adult lions. They will roar, and seize the prey, and carry it away, and no one will come to help. 
30 In that day they will roar against my people like the mighty waves of a rough sea. And if one looks at the land, behold there is darkness and sorrow. And the light will be darkened by the clouds in their sky.
