1 Rejoice, O barren one, you who have not borne children. Be comforted and be glad, you who have not known the pains of childbirth. For the children of the woman who is desolate [and who fears God] will be more numerous than the children of the woman who is living with her husband, says Yahweh. 
2 Enlarge the space of your tent, let them spread out the curtains of your dwelling. Do not hold back, lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes. 
3 For you will increase on the right and on the left, and your seed [who are your spiritual children] will possess nations and will cause desolate cities to be inhabited. 
4 Do not be afraid, for you will not be put to shame and you will not be confused. You will not be ashamed, for you will forget the shame of your youth and will no longer remember the reproach of your widowhood. 
5 For your creator is your husband, and his name is Yahweh the God of armies. Your redeemer is the holy one of Israel, and he will be called the God of the whole world. 
6 For Yahweh has called you like a woman forsaken and grieved in her spirit, like a wife of youth who has just been thrown away, says your God. 
7 I have forsaken you for a short time, but I will receive you with a great kindness. 
8 I have hidden my face from you for a short time, because of a moment of anger. But I will have mercy on you with an everlasting kindness, says Yahweh your redeemer. 
9 It will be for me like the waters of Noah. For I had sworn that the waters of Noah will no longer be poured out on the earth, and thus I swear that I will never be angry with you again, nor rebuke you again. 
10 For the mountains could be removed, and the hills could disappear, but my lovingkindness will not depart from you. My covenant of peace will fail, says Yahweh who has compassion on you. 
11 O you who are afflicted and tossed by the tempest, and are not comforted. Behold I will set your stones in the finest way, and lay your foundations with sapphires. [The stones and foundations of your house that I will build for you, that is to say, your legacy.]
12 And I will fashion your windows with emeralds, and your gates with shining stones, and all your borders with pleasant stones. 
13 All your [spiritual] children will be taught by Yahweh, and great will be the peace of your [spiritual] children. 
14 You will be established by your righteousness. You will be far from anxiety, for you will not need not be afraid, and from ruin, for it will not come near you. 
15 If plots are formed against you, then they will not come from me [that is to say, I the spirit]. Whoever will plan evil against you will fall because of you [since he will become my enemy]. 
16 Behold I have created the smith who blows the coals in the fire, and who makes a weapon by his work. But I have also created the destroyer who can make such a weapon useless. 
17 None of the weapon that can be formed against you [in order to ruin your legacy] will prosper. And you will succeed in having every tongue that will rise against you in judgment condemned. This is the heritage of the servants of Yahweh, and their salvation will come from me, says Yahweh.
