1 The spirit of the Lord Yahweh is on me. For Yahweh has anointed me to announce the good news to the powerless. He has sent me to heal those who have a broken heart, to proclaim liberty to the captives and deliverance to those [of his beloved] who are in chains. 
2 To proclaim a year of grace from Yahweh, and the day of revenge of our God. To comfort all those who mourn. 
3 To enlighten those who mourn in Zion. To give them a tiara instead of ashes, an oil of joy instead of mourning, a garment of praise instead of the spirit of sadness, so that they may be called trees of justice, the plantation of Yahweh to serve his glory. 
4 They will rebuild on old ruins, they will raise up the former desolations. They will repair ravaged cities which has been devastated through many generations. 
5 And the strangers will stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the strangers will be your plowmen and your vinedressers. 
6 And you will be called the priests of Yahweh. Men will call you the servants of our God. You will eat the wealth of the nations, and you will be exalted in their glory. 
7 You will receive a double portion Instead of your shame. Instead of ignominy, they will rejoice in their portion. For they will have the double in their land [that is to say, wherever they dwell], and their joy will be eternal. 
8 For I Yahweh, I love justice. I hate robbery and burnt offerings. I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. 
9 Their kind will be known among the nations, and their [spiritual] children among the peoples. Everyone who will see their works will acknowledge that they are the seed that Yahweh has blessed. 
10 I will greatly rejoice in Yahweh, my soul will be joyful in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation, and covered me with the mantle of deliverance. I feel like a bridegroom wearing a crown, like a bride adorned with magnificent jewels. 
11 For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to grow, thus the Lord Yahweh will germinate righteousness and praise, in the sight of all nations.
