1 Woe to those who decree unrighteous decrees, or who write sorrowful things [in their commands]. 
2 To deny justice to the powerless, and to take away the right of the poor of my people. To make of the widows their prey, and of the fatherless their spoil. 
3 What will you do in the day of retribution and of destruction that will come on you from afar. To whom will you flee for help. And where will you leave your riches [which are your glory]. 
4 Some will bow down among the captives, and others will fall among the slain. Despite all this, his anger [of Yahweh] will not be appeased, and his hand will be stretched out again. 
5 O Assyrian, the rod of my wrath. For the staff in their hand will be the implement of my fury. 
6 I will send him against an ungodly nation. I will give him my orders against a people who have provoked me to anger, to plunder and to take the spoil, and to trample them like the mire of the streets. 
7 But he does not think so, and it is not the preoccupation of his heart [for he does not intend to just punish persons who have behaved in an unacceptable way toward other persons]. For he thinks only to destroy, and to cut off nations in many places. 
8 For the king of Assyria says: Are not my officers like the kings of other nations. 
9 Is not Calno like Carchemish. Is not Hamath like Arpad. Is not Samaria like Damascus. 
10 And now my hand has reached the kingdoms of the idols, where there were more graven images than in Jerusalem and in Samaria. [That is to say, their gods were more numerous than the gods of the kingdom of Israel and the gods of the kingdom of Judah.] 
11 Why then should I not be able to do to Jerusalem and to its idols what I have done to Samaria and to its idols. 
12 Therefore when I the Lord has used him to performed everything that I intends to do on mount Zion and in Jerusalem, then I will punish the king of Assyria for the fruit of his proud heart and for the arrogance of his disdainful looks. 
13 For he says: It is by the strength of my hand [without the spirit] that I have done it, and by my wisdom since I am prudent. I have removed the borders of the peoples, and plundered their treasures. Like a valiant man, I made their inhabitants my slaves. 
14 I have laid my hand on the riches of the peoples, like on a nest. And I have gathered all the earth, as one gathers abandoned eggs. No one has moved the wings, nor opened the beak, nor uttered a cry [that is to say, no resistance has caught my attention]. 
15 And I Yahweh I say: Should the ax boast to the one who uses it. Or should the saw exalt itself towards the one who wields it. It is as if a rod could decide by itself to punish anyone, or as if a stick could pretend to be more than a piece of wood.
16 Therefore the Lord Yahweh the God of armies will send leanness among the fat of the king of Assyria. And the glory of the king of Assyria will be consumed as with a burning fire. 
17 The light of Israel will be like a fire, and the holy one of Israel will be like a flame. And it will consume and devour the thorns and the briers of the king of Assyria in one day. 
18 And then it will consume the glory of his forest and of his fruitful fields, both soul and flesh. And Assyria will be like a standard-bearer who faints. 
19 And the remnant of the trees of his forest will be few, and a child will count them. 
20 In that day, the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no longer lean on the people who has smitten them. And they will confidently lean on Yahweh who is the holy one of Israel. 
21 The remnant will return to the mighty God. Yes, the remnant of Jacob. 
22 Although your people are like the sand of the sea, O Israel, only a remnant of them will return. For destruction is decreed, and it will overflow with justice. 
23 For the Lord Yahweh the God of armies will perform throughout all the land the destruction that he has determined. 
24 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh the God of armies: O my people who dwell in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrian. He will indeed smite you with the rod and lift up his staff against you, as the Egyptians had done. 
25 But it will be for a short time, and the punishment will cease. And then my anger will turn against the Assyrian to destroy him. 
26 And Yahweh the God of armies will stir up a scourge for him, as in the massacre of Midian at the rock of Oreb. Yahweh will punish the Assyrian as he did to his enemies when he lifted up his staff over the sea and brought his people out of Egypt. 
27 In that day the burden of the Assyrian will be taken off your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck, and the yoke will be destroyed because of the anointing. 
28 The Assyrian will come to Aiath, and will pass through Migron, and will lay his baggage at Michmash. 
29 They will cross the river at the fords, and they will encamp at Geba. Ramah will be afraid, and Gibeah of Saul will flee. 
30 Raise your voice, O daughter of Gallim. Take heed, Laishah. Woe to you, Anathoth. 
31 Madmenah is removed, the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to flee. 
32 In that day the Assyrian will stop at Nob, and will lift up his hand against the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem. 
33 And behold, the Lord Yahweh the God of armies will cut off the branches with violence. The great will be cut down, and the arrogant humbled. 
34 Yahweh will cut down the thickets of the forest with an ax of iron, and thus the Assyrian who will be like Lebanon will fall by a mighty hit.
