1 Thus says Yahweh: Where is the letter of divorce by which I have rejected your mother [namely the city of Jerusalem]. Or to whom of my creditors have I sold you. Behold you have been sold because of your iniquities, and your mother has been rejected because of your sins. 
2 Why was there no one when I came. Why has no one answered when I called. Is My hand too short to redeem. Am I not strong enough to save. I dry up the sea with my rebuke, I turn the rivers into a wilderness. Their fish perish because of thirst, and stink because of the lack of water. 
3 I clothe the heavens with blackness, and make sackcloth their covering. 
4 The Lord Yahweh has given me the tongue of the learned, so that I may know how to sustain with words the one who is weary. He awakens me every morning, he awakens my ear so that I may listen like the learned. 
5 The Lord Yahweh has opened my ear and I have not been rebellious, I have not turned backward. 
6 I have given my back to those who were striking me, and my cheeks to those who were plucking out my beard. I have not hidden my face from shame and spitting.  
7 For the Lord Yahweh will help me, therefore I will not be confused. Therefore I have set my face like a flint, knowing that I will not be ashamed. 
8 He who justifies me is near. Who will contend with me. Let us stand together. Who is my adversary. Let him come near me. 
9 Behold the Lord Yahweh will help me. Who will condemn me. Behold they will all fade away like a garment, and the clothes moths will eat them up. 
10 Who is the one among you who fears Yahweh. Let him obey the voice of his servant. Who is the one who walks in darkness because he has no light. Let him trust in the name of Yahweh, and thus rely on his God. 
11 And behold, concerning all those among you who kindle a fire to make a torch for themselves [because they despise my light], you will be burned by the flames of your fire and by the coals that you have kindled. This thing will be done to you by my hand, and you will lie down in sorrow.
