1 Ho Ariel, Ariel, the city where David made his home [that is to say, Jerusalem]. For some time they will continue to make their feasts year after year. 
2 Then I will distress Ariel, and there will be lamentations and wailings, but it will always be my Ariel. 
3 I will surround you on every side. I will surround you with armed troops, and I will raise up fortresses against you. 
4 You will be brought low, and you will speak out of the ground. Your speech will come out of the dust, your voice will come from the ground like that of a ghost. It is from the dust that you will whisper your words. 
5 The multitude of your enemies will be like fine dust. This multitude of warriors will be like the dry grass that is devoured by fire. It will happen suddenly, in an instant.
6 You will be visited by Yahweh the God of armies with thunder, and earthquake, and great noise, and whirlwind, and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire.
7 And the multitude of all the nations that will have come to fight against Ariel [at that time], all those who will have come to surround it, and to attack it and its fortress, will be like a dream or a vision of the night. 
8 It will be like a hungry man who dreams that he is eating, and then he awakes and his soul is empty. Or like a thirsty man who dreams that he is drinking, and then he awakes and behold, he is tired and his soul is thirsty. The multitude of nations that will have come against mount Zion [at that time] will be thus. 
9 Be amazed and marveled. Open your eyes but remain blind. They are drunk, but not because of wine. They stagger, but not because of strong drink. 
10 For Yahweh has poured out on you a sleepy spirit. He has closed your eyes, O prophets. He has veiled your heads, O seers. [For your understanding is incomplete.] 
11 Therefore all revelation is for you like the words of a book that is sealed. And they give the book to a man who can read, and they say, 'Read this, we pray you'. But he answers, 'I cannot read it, because it is sealed'. 
12 Or like the words of a book that is given to a man who cannot read. And they say to him, 'Read this, we pray you'. But he answers, 'I have not learned to read'. 
13 And Yahweh says: When this people comes near to me, they honor me only with their mouth and with their lips. For their heart is far from me, and the fear that is caused in them by the desire not to offend me persuades them only to perform the traditions of men. 
14 Therefore behold, I will do another wonderful work for this people, a marvelous work and a miracle. And the wisdom of their wise men will perish, and the understanding of their prudent men will be hidden. 
15 Woe to those who try to hide certain things from Yahweh. They perform their works in darkness [that is to say secretly according to their point of view], and they say: Who sees us. Who knows what we have in our hearts. 
16 Your perversity is pathetic, you invert our roles. Should the potter be seen in the same way as the clay that he is handling. Should the work imagined by an artist say of its maker, 'He has not made me'. Or should a thing formed say of him who fashioned it: 'He has no understanding'. 
17 Yet a little while, and Lebanon will be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field will be considered a forest. 
18 In that day the deaf will hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind will see out of dimness and out of darkness. 
19 The humble will increase their joy in Yahweh, and the poor among men will rejoice in the holy one of Israel. 
20 For the cruel man will be no more, and the scorner will be smitten without delay by God. 
21 And all those who hasten to do iniquity will be cut off. Those who use their words or behavior to incite others to sin, or who set traps to bring down the one who judges honestly in the gate, or who use deceit to alter the rights of the innocent. 
22 Therefore thus says Yahweh to the house of Jacob, he who redeemed Abraham: [The true spiritual children of] Jacob will no longer be bewildered. The face of Jacob will no longer turn pale in that day.
23 For when his children see the work of my hands among them [or when they understand its meaning after having heard about it], then they will sanctify my name. They will sanctify the holy one of Jacob, they will fear the God of Israel. 
24 Those [among the true spiritual children of Jacob] who err in spirit will get understanding, those who murmur will learn the doctrine.
