1 Woe to the crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the faded flower that is the beauty of its adornment and that is on the heads of the people of the fertile valley of those who get drunk. 
2 Behold a strong and mighty man comes from the Lord. Like a storm of hail, a destroying whirlwind, like a tempest rushing with torrents of waters, he will cast that crown down to the ground with his hand. 
3 The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trampled underfoot. 
4 And the faded flower that is the beauty of its adornment and that is on the heads of the people of the fertile valley, will be like a fig that is early seen before the harvest, and that is immediately taken in the hand and eaten. 
5 In that day Yahweh the God of armies will become a crown of glory and a magnificent ornament for his people who are left. 
6 And a spirit of justice for whoever sits to judge, and the strength for those who turn back the enemy at the gates. 
7 For they also walk unsteadily because of wine, and are overcome by strong drink. The priests and the prophets stagger because of strong drink. They are swallowed up by wine, and are out of the way because of strong drink. They stagger while prophesying, and they stagger while they judge. 
8 All the tables are full of vomit and filth. There is no clean place. 
9 To whom do they want to teach wisdom. To whom do they want to make the message understood [by ordering these instructions that are on their tables]. Is it to children who have just been weaned and have just been taken away from the breast. 
10 For it is precept on precept, precept on precept, line on line, line on line, a little here, a little there. 
11 Well then. It is by men of stammering lips and of another languages that Yahweh will speak to this people. 
12 For Yahweh had said to them: Here is the rest, give rest to him who is weary. Here is the resting place. 
13 But they did not want to listen. And the word of Yahweh is understood by them as being precept on precept, precept on precept, line on line, line on line, a little here, a little there. And thus they will go and fall backward, and be broken. They will be ambushed and taken. 
14 Now hear the word of Yahweh, you the mockers who rule over this people who is in Jerusalem. 
15 For you say: We have made a covenant with death, and we are in agreement with hell. When the overflowing scourge passes through, it will spare us [and we will have our portion in this world according to the agreement we made with death]. For we have taken deceit as our refuge, we have hidden ourselves under falseness. 
16 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold I have laid in Zion a stone, a tried stone, a precious stone, a sure foundation. Whoever trusts in his message will not make haste to flee. 
17 I will make righteousness an obsession and justice the norm. And the hail will sweep away the refuge of deceit, and the waters will overflow the hidden places inside hearts. 
18 Your covenant with death will be destroyed [in future times], and your agreement with hell will not stand. When the overflowing scourge passes through, you will be trampled underfoot by it. 
19 When it passes through, it will take you. For it will pass through every morning, day after day, night after night, and its noise alone will terrify you. 
20 The bed will seem too short to stretch out on, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in it. 
21 For Yahweh will rise up as in mount Perazim, and he will be angry as in the valley of Gibeon. He will thus do his work, his strange work. He will achieve his plan, his strange plan. 
22 Now therefore do not mock, lest the ropes that are around you to bind you be tightened. For destruction is determined on the whole earth, I have heard it from the Lord Yahweh the God of armies. 
23 Incline your ears, and hear my voice. Pay attention, and listen to my word. 
24 Does he who plows to sow plow continuously. Does he open and break the clods of his ground continuously. 
25 When he has prepared the surface of his ground, he scatters the dill seeds and sows the cumin seeds. And he plants the wheat in rows, and the barley in its special place, and the spelt seeds on the edges of his field. 
26 For his God has taught him how to do it, he has given him instructions. 
27 The dill should not be threshed with a threshing instrument, and a cart wheel should not go over the cumin. But the dill is beaten out with a staff, and the cumin with a rod. 
28 They thresh the wheat, but do not thresh it continuously. The cart wheel and horses push it through, but do not crush it. 
29 This also comes from Yahweh the God of armies. Wonderful is his counsel, and great is his wisdom.
