1 A prophecy of Isaiah the son of Amoz concerning Judah and Jerusalem. 
2 In the last days, it will happen that the mountain of the house of Yahweh will be established on the top of the mountains, and will be exalted above the hills, and all nations will flow into it. 
3 And many peoples will go and say: Come, and let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us his ways, and we will walk in his paths. 
4 For the law will go forth out of Zion, the word of Yahweh will go forth from Jerusalem [and will spread throughout the whole world]. He will judge between the nations, and he will decide concerning many peoples. They will turn their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. A nation will no longer lift up the sword against another nation, and they will no longer learn to do war. 
5 O house of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of Yahweh. 
6 For you have forsaken your people the house of Jacob, because they are filled with the customs from the east, and are sorcerers like the Philistines, and because they associate themselves with anyone who does evil. 
7 The land is full of silver and gold [which carry the curse of the evil deeds by which they were obtained], and they possess such treasures in great quantity. Their land is full of horses, and its chariots are without number. 
8 Their land is full of idols. For they worship the work of their hands, the things that their fingers have made. 
9 Therefore the small will be bowed down, and the great will be brought low. You will not forgive them. 
10 Enter into the rock, and hide yourself in the dust, because of the fear of Yahweh and because of the splendor of his majesty. 
11 The haughty eye will be brought low, and the proud man will be humbled, and Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day. 
12 For there is a day of Yahweh the God of armies for every one who is proud and haughty, and for every one who exalts himself. Such a person will be brought low. 
13 And for all the cedars of Lebanon that are high and exalted, and for all the oaks of Bashan. 
14 And for all the high mountains, and for all the hills that are exalted. 
15 And for every high tower, and for every fortified wall. 
16 And for every ship of Tarshish, and for every thing that pleases the sight [and thus causes desire in the heart of man]. 
17 The proud man will be humbled, and the haughty man will be brought low, and Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day. 
18 All the idols will be utterly abolished. 
19 And they will go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, because of the fear of Yahweh and because of the splendor of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily. 
20 In that day, men will cast away to the rats and to the bats their idols of silver and their idols of gold which they had made to worship them. 
21 And they will go into the holes of the rocks, and into the clefts of the ragged rocks, because of the fear of Yahweh and because of the splendor of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily.
22 Cease to put your trust in man, in whose nostrils there is only a breath. Indeed, what value does he have.
