1 Who has believed what was announced to us. Who has recognized the arm of Yahweh. 
2 He grew up before Yahweh like a tender plant, like a root out of a dry ground. However, he was neither beautiful nor impressive. When we saw him, there was nothing in his appearance that could please us. 
3 He was despised and rejected by men, he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He was despised like one from whom men hide their faces, we had not esteemed him. 
4 Surely he has borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows. And we were thinking that he has been punished, smitten and afflicted by God. 
5 But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. The punishment that brings us peace was on him, and it is by his wounds that we are healed. 
6 All of us had gone astray like sheep. Each one [of the peoples] had turned to his own way, and Yahweh has laid on him the iniquity of us all. 
7 He was oppressed and afflicted, but nevertheless he did not open his mouth. He was like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, like a silent sheep before its shearers. He did not open his mouth. 
8 He has been taken away by oppression and injustice. And who among all those of his generation has understood what was happening. For it is because of the transgression of my people that he has been smitten and cut off from the land of the living. 
9 He has been with the wicked in his death, and with the rich in his tomb, although he had done no violence and there was no deceit in his mouth. 
10 For it pleased Yahweh to crush him with suffering. After you have made of his soul an offering for sin, he will see his seed. He will prolong his days, and the delight of Yahweh will prosper in his hand. 
11 He will see the work of his soul, and will be satisfied. My righteous servant will justify many by his knowledge, for he will bear their iniquities. 
12 Therefore I will give him a portion with the great. He will divide the spoil with the strong. For he has poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors, in order to bear the sin of many and to make intercession for the transgressors.
