1 And when king Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with a sackcloth, and went into the temple of Yahweh.
2 And Hezekiah sent Eliakim who was the steward of the king's household, and Shebna the secretary, and the elders of the priests. He sent them clothed with sackcloth to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
3 And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah: This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy. For children are close to leave the womb, but there is no strength for childbirth.
4 Perhaps Yahweh your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh whom the king of Assyria his master has sent to insult the living God, and perhaps Yahweh your God will rebuke the words that he has heard. Therefore lift up your prayer for those of us who are still alive. 
5 So the servants of king Hezekiah went to Isaiah.
6 And Isaiah said to them, This is what you will say to your master: Thus speaks Yahweh, Do not be afraid of the words that you have heard and by which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.
7 Behold I will send a blast on him [the king of Assyria], and he will hear a news and will return to his own land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
8 And when Rabshakeh heard that the king of Assyria had departed from Lachish, he went and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah.
9 Then the king of Assyria heard say of Tirhakah the king of Ethiopia, Behold he has come out to fight against you. And when the king of Assyria heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah again by telling them the following words.
10 You will speak to Hezekiah the king of Judah and say: Let not your God in whom you trust deceive you by saying, Jerusalem will not be delivered into the hands of the king of Assyria.
11 Behold you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the other lands, and how they have destroyed them. How then can you think that you will be saved out of my hand.
12 Have the gods of the nations saved them out of the hand of my fathers. For we have destroyed Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden who were in Telassar. 
13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and the kings of Hena and Ivvah.
14 And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and did read it. Then Hezekiah went to the temple of Yahweh, and Hezekiah laid it before Yahweh. 
15 And Hezekiah prayed before Yahweh with the following words.
16 O Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel who dwells between the cherubim [above the ark]. You alone are the God who rules all the kingdoms of the earth. It is you who made the heaven and the earth.
17 Open your ear and listen, O Yahweh. Open your eyes and look, and hear all the words of Sennacherib who has sent to insult the living God.
18 Yahweh, I know that the kings of Assyria have destroyed all those countries and ravaged their lands.
19 And these kings have thrown the gods of the nations into the fire. But those gods were false gods made of wood and stone, the work of human hands. That is why it was achievable to destroy them.
20 Now therefore, O Yahweh our God, save us out of the hand of Sennacherib. And then all the kingdoms of the earth will know that you alone are Yahweh.
21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah by saying, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib the king of Assyria. 
22 And this is the word that Yahweh has spoken against Sennacherib: The virgin daughter of Zion despises you and she mocks you. The daughter of Jerusalem shrugs her shoulders before you. 
23 Whom have you insulted and blasphemed. Against whom have you exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high. This is against the holy one of Israel.
24 You have insulted the Lord by your messengers, and you have said: It is by the multitude of my chariots [namely my own strength without the spirit] that I have gone up to the top of the mountains in the innermost parts of Lebanon. And there I have cut down the loftiest cedars and the choicest fir trees. I have gone into its farthest height and into its thickest forests. 
25 I have dug and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet I have dried up all the rivers of besieged places.
26 Have you not heard that I have planned these things long ago and that I have formed them in the ancient times. And now I have accomplished them, and you have reduced fortified cities to heaps of ruins.
27 Their inhabitants were powerless, they were terrified and confounded. They were like the grass of the field and the green herb. Like the grass on the roof of a house, or like grain destroyed before it had grown up.
28 But I know when you sit down, and when you go out, and when you come in, and when you are angry with me [namely when you offend my spirit].
29 For you are angry with me, and your arrogance has come up to my ears. Therefore I will put my hook in your nose, and my bridle in your lips, and I will lead you back by the way on which you have come.
30 And this will be a sign to you [you Hezekiah]: in the next year you [your people] will sow as habitually but you will eat of the things that have grown by themselves in your fields during this year in which you have not had the opportunity to work the land. But from the third year onwards you will harvest what you have sown. You will plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
31 And the people who will have survived of the house of Judah will again be like plants that send their roots deep into the ground and produce fruit above the ground.
32 For there will be a remnant in Jerusalem [after this time of affliction caused by the soldiers of the king of Assyria who have besieged the city]. And there will be survivors on the mount Zion [the part of Jerusalem where the city of David is located]. The zeal of Yahweh the God of armies will do this.
33 Therefore Yahweh speaks concerning the king of Assyria and says: He will not come into this city, or shoot an arrow at this city, or come closer with shields to begin a battle, or set up a mountain against the wall to enter the city.
34 But his soldiers will return by the way on which they have come and they will not enter this city, Yahweh has spoken it.
35 For I will defend this city to save it, because of my name and because of my servant David. 
36 Then an angel of Yahweh went forth and smote one hundred and eighty five thousand men in the camp of the Assyrians. So when the others arose early in the morning, behold their companions were all dead bodies.
37 Then Sennacherib king of Assyria decamped, and they went and returned, and he stayed at Nineveh. 
38 And while he was worshiping in temple of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons killed him with the sword and escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esar-haddon his son reigned in his stead.
