1 The prophecy about the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds from the south advances, so it comes from the wilderness, from a terrible land. 
2 A grievous vision has been revealed to me. The treacherous man acts treacherously, the devastator devastates. Go up, O Elam. Besiege, O Media. I will put an end to all their sighing. 
3 Therefore my waist is filled with anguish, I the prophet Isaiah. Pangs have taken hold of me, like the pains of a woman who gives birth. I was bowed down when I heard it, and I was afraid when I saw it. 
4 My heart is troubled, terror has taken hold of me. The night of my pleasure has become a night of terror. 
5 Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower. They eat, they drink. Arise, you the princes [leaders], and anoint the shield. 
6 For Yahweh has spoken thus to me. Go and set a watchman, and let him report what he sees. 
7 Whether he sees a troop, or horsemen in pairs, or a troop of donkeys, or a troop of camels, he must listen and pay attention. 
8 Then he cried out like a lion: O Lord, I stand continuously on the tower in the daytime, I stay at my post every night. 
9 And behold, a troop of men have come on their horses, horsemen in pairs. And one has spoken and said: Babylon has fallen, it has fallen, and all the graven images of its gods have been broken to the ground. 
10 O my people, you are my threshing and the grain of my floor. What I have heard from Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, I have declared it to you. 
11 The prophecy about Dumah. One cry out to me from Seir and says: Watchman, how long will the night last. Watchman, how long will the night last. 
12 And the watchman answers: The morning comes, and then another night will come. If you have another question then come back later and ask. 
13 The prophecy about Arabia. You will spend the night in the forest of Arabia, you caravans of the Dedanites. 
14 Bring water to the thirsty, you the inhabitants of the land of Tema. Bring bread to the fugitives. 
15 For they flee from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war. 
16 For Yahweh has spoken thus to me: Within a year, according to the years of a hireling, all the glory of Kedar will perish. 
17 And the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the sons of Kedar, will be few. For Yahweh the God of Israel has spoken it.
