1 Thus says Yahweh: The heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What house could you build for me. What place would you give me to dwell in. 
2 For all these things have been made by my hand, and it is in this way that all of them have come into being, says Yahweh. Now therefore listen, here is the one whom I will take care of: the one who is humble and of a contrite spirit, and who is afraid of my word. 
3 He who kills a bullock is like the one who kills a human being, and he who sacrifices a lamb is like the one who breaks a dog's neck. He who offers a grain offering is like the one who offers the blood of a pig, and he who burns incense is like the one who worships false gods. All these persons delight in their own ways, and their souls find pleasure in their abominations. 
4 I too will take pleasure in their affliction, and I will bring their fear on them, because I will have called and they will not have answered, because I will have spoken and they will not have listened. For they will have done what is evil in my sight, they will have chosen what displeased me. 
5 Hear the word of Yahweh, you who are afraid of his word. This is what your brothers who hate you and reject you because of my true name say, 'Let Yahweh be glorified through the commandments that had been taught by Moses'. But he will appear for your joy, and they will be covered with shame. 
6 A loud voice comes from the city, a voice from the temple. It is the voice of Yahweh who rewards his enemies. 
7 Before she has suffered pain, she has given birth. Before her sufferings have come, she has given birth to a son. 
8 Who has ever heard such a thing. Who has ever seen anything like it. Can a nation be born in one day [as will be the nation formed by the children of the Christ of God]. Can a nation be born in a single moment [without requiring a period of consultations]. For as soon as [the city of] Zion will travail, she will give birth to her true children. 
9 Can I open the womb [as I did in giving the law of Moses] and not let the child be born, says [the spirit of] Yahweh. Can I cause to bring forth, and shut the womb, says your God.
10 Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, you all who love her. Leap with her for joy, you all who mourn for her. 
11 So that you may suck and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolation, so that you may milk and be delighted in the brightness of her glory.
12 .
13 .
14 .
15 .
16 .
17 .
18 .
19 .
20 .
21 .
22 .
23 .
24 .
