1 At that time Hezekiah became sick and was nearly dead. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, Thus says Yahweh: Put your house in order, because you will not live but you will die. 
2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh with the following words.
3 I beseech you to remember now, O Yahweh, that I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and that I have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept wholeheartedly. 
4 Then the word of Yahweh came to Isaiah with the following words.
5 Go back and tell Hezekiah, Thus says Yahweh the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer and seen your tears. Behold I will add fifteen years to your days.
6 And I will save you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria. For I will defend this city. 
7 And the following thing will be a sign of Yahweh for you, so that you may know that Yahweh will perform what he has spoken.
8 Behold I will cause the shadow to go back ten steps on the steps of Ahaz where it is observed [something made by Ahaz still existed in that place at that time]. So the shadow [and not the sun] goes back ten steps. 
9 The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick and had recovered.
10 I said during my illness: I am on the way to the gates of death, I am deprived of the residue of my years. 
11 And I said: I will no longer see [the house of] Yahweh, Yahweh in the land of the living. I will no longer see any man among the inhabitants of the world. 
12 My home was being taken away from me and carried away like a shepherd's tent. I felt the thread of my life being cut as by a weaver who was cutting me from his loom. From day to night you will have killed me. 
13 I counted at every moment the time that separated me from the morning, thinking that my bones would be suddenly broken as by a lion. From day to night you will have killed me. 
14 I chattered like a swallow, I moaned like a dove. My eyes were weary to look upward. O Lord, help me because I am in anxiety. 
15 And now what will I say. For he has answered me and has fulfilled my desire. I will walk humbly during all the time that I have left to live, after having been thus humbled. 
16 O Lord, it is by your goodness that we enjoy life. It is through them that I still breathe. You have restored me, you have brought me back to life.
17 And behold my suffering has become a part of my salvation. You have taken pleasure in removing my soul from the pit of corruption, for you have cast all my sins behind you. 
18 It is not the place of the dead that praises you, it is not those who are dead who celebrate you. Those who have descended into the pit can no longer hope for mercy. 
19 Those who are alive, alive, they are the ones who praise you as I do today. And the fathers will declare your faithfulness to their children. 
20 Yahweh has saved me. We will sing with stringed instruments all the days of our life, in the house of Yahweh.
21 Now Isaiah had said: Take a lump of dry figs, and crush it, and put it on the sore of Hezekiah, and he will recover.
22 For Hezekiah had said to Isaiah: What will be the sign that Yahweh will heal me, and that I will go up to the temple of Yahweh. [Now Hezekiah wanted to be reassured that Isaiah was not trying to assuage his feeling so that might die in peace. For it is known that the prophet Elisha had asked the servant of the king of Syria to lie to him that he would recover from his illness while knowing that he was going to die.] 
