1 Send lambs to the ruler of the land, send them from Selah through the wilderness to the mountain of the daughter of Zion. 
2 Like a fledgling that have fallen from their nest, thus will be the daughters of Moab be at the fords of the Arnon. 
3 And they will say: Give counsel, execute justice. Cover us with your shadow at noonday as with the night. Hide those who are persecuted, do not betray the fugitive. 
4 Allow those who have been expelled from Moab to dwell with you. Be a refuge for them from the destroyer. 
5 For oppression will cease, devastation will end, and the one who tramples the land will disappear. And a throne will be established in mercy, and he who will sit on it will be an honest judge from the tent of David. He will seek justice and will be zealous for righteousness. 
6 We have heard of the pride of the proud Moab, how they are arrogant and conceited. But his boasting is empty talk. 
7 Therefore Moab will wail for Moab, every one will wail. You will mourn for the foundations of Kir-hareseth, which will be smitten. 
8 For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah. The masters of the nations have broken down its choice branches, which reached even to Jazer, and which wandered into the wilderness. Its shoots had spread abroad, they had passed over the sea. 
9 Therefore I will weep for the vine of Sibmah, as for Jazer. I will water you with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh. For a shout of war has come on your summer fruits and on your harvest. 
10 Gladness is taken away, and joy has cease from the fruitful field. There is no more singing in the vineyards, no more rejoicing. The grape harvester no longer treads wine in the wine presses, I have caused the shouting of joy to cease. 
11 Therefore my heart will sound like a harp for Moab, and all my inner parts for Kir-hares. 
12 Moab will be weary on their high places, and will enter their sanctuary to pray, but they will not prevail. 
13 This is the word that Yahweh has spoken long ago concerning Moab. 
14 And now Yahweh has spoken by saying: Within three years, like the years of a hireling, the glory of Moab will be brought into contempt. And despite all its great multitude that now exists, the remnant will be very small and weak.
