1 And Yahweh said to me: Take a large tablet and write on it with a man's pen the following word, Mahershalalhashbaz [which means, Hasten to the spoil, hasten to the prey]. 
2 Then I took with me faithful witnesses to see how I wrote the word. They were Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberekiah. 
3 Then I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then Yahweh said to me: Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz. 
4 For before the child can say 'My father, my mother', the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria. 
5 And Yahweh spoke to me again with the following words. 
6 Since this people has despised the waters of Shiloah that flow softly, and has rejoiced in Rezin and in the son of Remaliah. 
7 Now therefore, behold Yahweh will bring up against them the mighty and great waters of the river Euphrates, namely the king of Assyria and all his power. For he will be like waters that are lifted up above all its channels and overflow all its banks. 
8 And it will come into Judah, and it will overflow and pass through, and it will reach the neck. And the spreading of its wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Immanuel. 
9 Join together, O you peoples, and you will be broken in pieces. Give ear, you all who live far away. Prepare yourselves for battle, and you will be broken in pieces. Prepare yourselves for battle, and you will be broken in pieces. 
10 Make plans, and they will be brought to nought. Give orders, and they will not stand. For Immanuel [that is to say, for God is with us]. 
11 For Yahweh has spoken to me in the following way, when his hand seized me to teach me not to walk in the way of this people. 
12 Do not call a conspiracy all that this people calls a conspiracy. Do not be afraid of them, and do not fear what they fear. 
13 For it is Yahweh the God of armies whom you must sanctify. He alone must be the cause of your fear and of your terror. 
14 And he will be a sanctuary, but also a stumbling block. A rock of scandal for the two houses of Israel, a net and a snare for the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
15 Many among them will stumble on it. They will fall and be broken. They will be ambushed, and will be snared. 
16 Wrap this testimony, seal this revelation among my disciples. [Let my disciples keep it in their hearts.] 
17 And now I wait for Yahweh, he who hides his face to the house of Jacob. I will look for him. 
18 And behold, I and the [spiritual] children whom Yahweh has given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel, from Yahweh the God of armies who dwells in mount Zion. 
19 If they say to you, 'Consult those who communicate with the dead, and the soothsayers who whisper and sigh [namely all those who do not only practice the commandments of Yahweh]. Then you will answer them: Should not a people consult their God. Should they seek the advice of the dead to know how to behave among the living. 
20 Each faithful person must say, 'I trust only the law and the testimony'. For the one who does not speak in this way has no light in him. 
21 In those days, they will wander to and fro while being afflicted and hungry. And when the famine will increase, they will fret, and will curse their king and their God. 
22 For whether they look upward or on the land, behold there will only be trouble and darkness, vexation and anguish. And they will be driven to darkness.
