1 Behold the hand of Yahweh is not too short to save, nor his ear too hard to hear. 
2 But it is your iniquities that separate you from your God. It is your sins that hide his face from you, and prevent him from hearing you. 
3 For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken in falsehood, and your tongue has murmured wickedness. 
4 No one complains in righteousness, no one pleads with equity. They rely on vain things and speak with deceit, they conceive deceptions and bring forth iniquity. 
5 They incubate the eggs of serpents and weave spiders' webs. Whoever eats of their eggs dies. And if one of those eggs is broken, then it comes out a viper. 
6 Their webs are not good for clothing, and they will not cover themselves with their own work. Their works are works of iniquity, and acts of violence are in their hands. 
7 Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Unhappiness and destruction are in their paths. 
8 They do not know the way of peace, there is no equity in their ways. They take crooked paths, and whoever walks in such a path will not know peace. 
9 Therefore the decree of deliverance is far from us, and salvation does not come near us. We look for light, but lo, it is darkness. We look for brightness, but we walk in darkness. 
10 We grope like blind people along a wall, we grope like those who have no eyes. We lurch at noonday as if we were at night, we look like dead men in the midst of our possessions.
11 We all growl like bears, we wail like doves. We look for deliverance, but it is not there. We look for salvation, but it is far from us. 
12 For our transgressions are many before you, and our sins testify against us. For our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities. 
13 We have transgressed and acted treacherously against Yahweh, we have forsaken our God. We have spoken violence and apostasy, we have planned deceptions in our hearts and we have acted in falseness. 
14 Therefore deliverance has turned backward, and salvation stands far off. For truth staggers in the street, and uprightness cannot come near. 
15 Yes, truth has perished. The one who turns away from evil becomes a prey. Yahweh has seen it, and he is discontented because there is no justice. 
16 He sees that there is no one who is honest, and he is amazed because there is no intercessor. Therefore his arm will perform salvation, and his righteousness will uphold him. 
17 He puts on righteousness as a breastplate, and the helmet of salvation on his head. He takes vengeance as his garment, and covers himself with jealousy as with a cloak. 
18 He will repay each one according to his deeds. There will be fury for his adversaries, and reprimand for his enemies. And he will repay the islands. 
19 The name of Yahweh will be feared from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy comes like a flood, the spirit of Yahweh will chase him away. 
20 A redeemer will come to Zion, to those who turn away from transgression in Jacob, says Yahweh. 
21 As for me, says Yahweh, this is my covenant with them: My spirit which rests on you, and my words which I have put in your mouth, will not depart from your mouth, nor from the mouth of your seed, nor from the mouth of the seed of your seed, says Yahweh, from henceforth and forever.
