1 Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. 
2 Speak to the heart of Jerusalem, and cry out to her by saying: your bondage is ended, your iniquity is forgiven, you have already received from the hand of Yahweh a punishment for the double of all your sins. 
3 The voice of someone is shouting: Prepare a way in the wilderness [of your hearts] for Yahweh. Make a straight highway in the wilderness for our God. 
4 Let every valley be exalted, and let every mountain and hill be made low. Straighten the crooked roads, and smooth the rough places. 
5 And the glory of Yahweh will be revealed, and all human beings will see it together. For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken. 
6 The voice of someone says, Cry out. And he answers: What will I cry out. All flesh is like grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. 
7 The grass withers, and the flower fades, when the breath of Yahweh blows on it. Surely the people is like grass. 
8 The grass withers, and the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. 
9 Go up into a high mountain and proclaim the good news, O daughter of Zion. Lift up your voice with strength and proclaim good news, O daughter of Jerusalem. Lift up your voice and do not be afraid. Say to the cities of Judah: Now you know who your true God is. 
10 Behold the Lord Yahweh has come with power, and his arm will rule for him. Behold the remuneration is with him. He will reward each person according to the work of that person.
11 He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm and carry them in his bosom. He will lead the nursing ewes. 
12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and has measured the heaven with the palm of his hand. Who has gathered the dust of the earth in a measure, and has weighed the mountains and the hills in a scale. 
13 Who has instructed the spirit of Yahweh. Who has been his advisor to teach him. 
14 With whom has he consulted to receive instruction. Who has taught him the way of justice. Who has taught him wisdom by showing him the way of understanding. 
15 Behold all the nations are like a drop in a bucket [in his sight], like some small dust on a scale. Behold the islands are like small dust before him. 
16 All the trees of Lebanon are not enough to make a fire capable of impressing him, and all its beasts are not enough to offer a burnt offering capable of impressing him. 
17 All the nations are as nothing before him. They are considered by him as less than nothing and as vanity. 
18 To whom will you compare God. What is the thing that you will consider to be his likeness. 
19 A craftsman melts a material to make an image, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and welds silver chains to it.
20 He who is too poor to invest so much wealth chooses a tree that does not rot easily. Then he seeks a skilled craftsman to make a carved image that may last a long time without deterioration. 
21 But I say: Do you not know. Have you not heard it. Has it not been told you from the beginning. Have you not considered the foundations of the earth. [Why do you want to consider such a thing or such a person as being worthy of deserving your devotion.] 
22 He who created all things sits on the circle of the earth, and those who dwell on the earth are like grasshoppers in his sight. He has stretched out the heavens like a curtain, and has spread them out like a tent to dwell in. 
23 He reduces princes to nothing. He causes the rulers of the earth to become vanity. 
24 It is as if they had not been planted, as if they had not been sown. For their stems have not taken root in the earth. He blows on them and they wither, and a whirlwind sweeps them away like stubble. 
25 To whom will you compare me so that I may be his likeness, says the holy one. [What is your expectation regarding the best representation of my person, knowing that I am the one who smites even those who are lifted up among men. In your opinion, what can motivate me to smite this or that person.] 
26 Lift up your eyes on high and look. Who has created these things. Who brings out their armies in order. He calls each of them by its name and there is not one that is lacking, because of his great power and his mighty strength. 
27 Why do you say the following thing, O Jacob. Why do you cogitate with the following words, O Israel: My way is hidden from Yahweh, the justice due to me is unnoticed by my God. 
28 Do you not know. Have you not heard it. Yahweh is the everlasting God and the creator of the ends of the world. He does not grow bored of exercising justice, he does not become tired. His understanding cannot be fathomed. 
29 He gives strength to the one who faints [among his beloved]. He increases the endurance of the powerless. 
30 Young men may get bored and become weary. Young men may stumble and fall. 
31 But those who wait for Yahweh will renew their strength. They will lift up their wings like eagles. They will run and will not be weary, they will walk and will not faint.
