1 I have manifested myself to those who have asked me nothing. I have let myself be found by those who were not looking for me. I have said to a nation that was not calling on my name: Here I am, here I am. 
2 For I had every day stretched out my hands to a rebellious people, who walk in an evil way by following their own thoughts. 
3 A people who continually provokes me in the face. They offer sacrifices in gardens and burn incense on bricks. 
4 They sit among the graves and spend some nights in secret places. They eat the flesh of the pig, and put unclean food in their vessels. 
5 And they say to others: Keep your distance and do not come near us, because we are holy.
6 They are like smoke in my eyes, and their fire burns continually. Behold all your deeds are written before me. I will not keep silent, but I will reward them. I will reward them fully. 
7 I will act because of your iniquities and because of the iniquities of your fathers, says Yahweh. For they had burned incense on the mountains, and thus insulted me on the hills. Therefore I will measure to them the reward of their past deeds. 
8 Thus says Yahweh: When there is sweet juice in some of the clusters of grapes, one says, 'Do not destroy the whole vineyard, for there is a blessing in it'. I will act thus for the sake of my servants, so as not to destroy them all. 
9 I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and there will be some people out of Judah who will inherit my mountain. My chosen ones will inherit the land, and my servants will dwell there [after I have ravaged it]. 
10 Sharon will be a sheepfold, and the valley of Achor will be a resting place for the cattle, for my people who seek me.
11 As for you who have forsaken Yahweh, who have forgotten my holy mountain and have prepared there a table for your false gods, to offer drink offerings to the god of destiny. 
12 I will appoint you to the sword, and you will all bow your knees to be slaughtered. For you have not answered when I have called, you have not listened when I have spoken. But you have done what is evil in my sight, you have chosen what I dislike. 
13 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold my servants will eat, but you will be hungry. Behold my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty. Behold my servants will rejoice, but you will be ashamed [in the end]. 
14 Behold my servants will sing with joy in their hearts, but you will cry because of the sorrow of your heart and wail because of the vexation of your spirit. 
15 Your name will be considered as a curse by my chosen ones. For the Lord Yahweh will kill you [for the second death which is the destruction or the rotting of the legacy], while he will call his servants by another names. 
16 Whoever will want to be blessed on the earth will want to be blessed by the true God. And whoever will swear on the earth will swear by the true God. For the former troubles will be forgotten and hidden from my eyes. 
17 For lo, I am creating new heavens and a new earth. The former things will not be remembered [in the purpose of performing them like the burnt offerings], they will not come into mind. 
18 But be glad and rejoice forever for what I am creating. For behold, I will create a new Jerusalem for joy, and its people for gladness. 
19 I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and I will rejoice in my people. The voice of weeping or the voice of crying will no more be heard there [in those days]. 
20 There will be neither children nor old people who do not fulfill their days. For whoever dies at the age of one hundred will be considered as young, and the sinner who will die at the age of one hundred will be considered as accursed. 
21 They will build houses and inhabit them, and they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 
22 They will not build houses that will be inhabited by another, and they will not plant vineyards whose fruit will be eaten by another. For the days of my people will be like the days of a tree, and my chosen ones will enjoy the work of their hands. 
23 They will not labor in vain, and they will not bear children to see them perish. For they will be a seed blessed by Yahweh, and their children with them. 
24 In those days I will answer before they call on me. I will hear them while they are speaking. 
25 The wolf and the lamb will feed together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox, and dust will be the food of the serpent. They will no more hurt nor destroy on all my holy mountain, says Yahweh.
