1 Thus says Yahweh to Cyrus his anointed, the one whose right hand I will hold in order to subdue nations before him: I will weaken the waists of kings in order to open the doors before him, and those gates will not be closed again. 
2 I will go before you, and I will smooth the rough places. I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and I will cut the bars of iron. 
3 I will give you hidden treasures, the riches hidden in secret places, and you will know that I am the God of Israel, I Yahweh who call you by your name. 
4 I have called you by your name for the sake of my servant Jacob, and of Israel my chosen. I have spoken to you, before you have known me. 
5 I am Yahweh, and there is no other. There is no God beside me. 
6 I have girded you before you have known me. I will act thus so that it may be known, from the rising of the sun to the going down of the sun, that there is no God beside me. I am Yahweh, and there is no other. 
7 I form the light, and I create darkness. I bring peace, and I create adversity. I Yahweh, I am the one who does all these things. 
8 Let the heavens send dew from above, and let the sky pour down righteousness. Let the earth open, and let salvation and justice grow together. I have created it, I Yahweh. 
9 Woe to him who contends with his maker, you a vessel among earthen vessels. Should the clay say to the one who fashions it, 'What are you making.' or 'Does your work have no hand.'.
10 Woe to him who says to his father, 'Why have you begotten me.'. Or the one who says to his mother, 'Why did you give birth to me.'. 
11 Thus says Yahweh, the holy one of Israel and his maker: Should someone ask me to justify myself about the things that happen. Should anyone give me orders concerning my children who are the work of my hand. 
12 I have made the earth, and created man on it. I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens, and have commanded all their army. 
13 I have raised up Cyrus in my righteousness, and I will direct all his ways. He will [order to] rebuild my city, and he will let go my captives without ransom or reward, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
14 Thus says Yahweh: The goods of Egypt and the goods of Ethiopia, and of the Sabeans who are tall men, it will come to you and will be yours. And the men of those peoples will follow you, walking in fetters. They will fall down before you, and will make supplications to you by saying: Surely the true God is with you [O Cyrus], and there is no other God beside him on the whole earth. 
15 And I say now, I Isaiah the prophet: You are truly a God who hides his true identity, O God of Israel, the savior. 
16 All of them will be ashamed and confused. Their portion will be into shame, all those who trust in graven images. 
17 But Israel will be saved by Yahweh with an everlasting salvation. You will neither be put to shame nor be confused in the end, and forever. 
18 For thus says Yahweh the creator of the heavens, the only God who formed the earth and fashioned it. He has established the earth, he has not created it without purpose. He has formed it to be inhabited. I am Yahweh, and there is no one else. 
19 I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth. I have not said to the seed of Jacob, 'Seek me in vain'. I Yahweh, I speak what is true and I declare what is right. 
20 Assemble yourselves and come. Come near together, you who escape from the nations. Those who carry their wooden idols have no understanding, they call on a god who cannot save. 
21 Declare it, and bring them forth. Let them take counsel together. Who has foretold these things from ancient times. Who has declared it a long time ago. Is it not I Yahweh. There is no other God beside me. I am the righteous God who saves, there is no one else beside me. 
22 Turn to me and be saved, you all the ends of the earth. For I am God, and there is no other. 
23 I swear it by myself, the truth comes out of my mouth and my word will not fail: Every knee will bow to me, and every tongue will swear by me. 
24 Surely they will say of me: It is only in Yahweh that there is justice and strength. All those who have provoked his anger will come before him and will be ashamed. 
25 All the seed of Israel will be justified in Yahweh, and will glory.
