1 Here is my servant whom I support, my chosen one in whom my soul takes pleasure. For I have placed my spirit on him, and therefore he will proclaim justice to the nations. 
2 He will not cry out nor lift up his voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street. 
3 He will not separate the broken reed, and he will not quench the burning wick. He will proclaim justice in truth. 
4 He will not grow tired and he will not be discouraged, until he has established justice on the earth. And the isles will hope in his law. 
5 Thus says God Yahweh who created the heavens and stretched them out. He who did spread out the earth and its products. He who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk on it. 
6 I, Yahweh, have called you for salvation. I will hold your hand, and I will preserve you. You will be my covenant with the people, the light of the nations. 
7 In order to open the eyes of the blind, and to bring out the captive from the prisons [in which their minds have been locked]. To enlighten those who sit in darkness and thus free their minds from prison. 
8 I am Yahweh, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. 
9 Behold the former things have been fulfilled, and I have declared new things to you. I have told you of them before they occur. 
10 Sing a new song to Yahweh, sing his praise throughout the whole earth. You who sail on the sea, and all that is in the sea. You all the islands and their inhabitants. 
11 Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voices. Let the towns occupied by Kedar lift up their voices. Let those who dwell on the rocks sing. Let them shout from the tops of the mountains. 
12 Let them give glory to Yahweh, and declare his praise in the islands. 
13 Yahweh will go forth like a mighty man, he will stir up his zeal like a man of war. He will raise his voice and shout, he will show his strength against his enemies. 
14 I have held my peace for a long time, I have been quiet and I have refrained myself. And now I will cry out like a woman who is giving birth. I will destroy and devour at once. 
15 I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their vegetation. I will turn rivers into dry land, and dry up pools of water. 
16 And I will lead the blind by a way that they do not know, that is to say all those who are willing to do what is right but do not understand the purpose of life. I will guide them on paths that they do not know. I will turn darkness into light before them, and crooked places into plains. I will do these things, for I will not forsake them. 
17 And they will turn back, and they will be greatly ashamed for having trusted in graven images and for having said to molten images: You are our gods. 
18 Listen, you the deaf. Look, you the blind, in order to see.
19 Who is blind if not my servant, or deaf like my messenger whom I send. Who is blind like he who is at peace with me, and blind like the servant of Yahweh. 
20 You have seen many things, but you have not considered them. He has opened the ears, but he has not heard.
21 For the sake of his justice, it pleased Yahweh to magnify the law and exalt it. 
22 But they have become a people robbed and plundered, all of them are snared in holes and their minds have become prisons. They have been plundered, and no one has rescued them. They have been plundered, and there is no one to say: Restore. 
23 Who among you will consider these things. Who will pay attention and listen for the future. 
24 Who has given Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers. Is it not Yahweh. They have sinned against him. They have not wanted to walk in his ways, and they have not wanted to obey his law. 
25 Therefore he has poured out on them the fierceness of his anger and the violence of war. And they have been set on fire on every side, but afterward they have not understood. They have been devoured, but afterward they have not considered.
