1 And Yahweh says: Woe to the rebellious children, those who take resolutions without seeking to obey my will that has been taught to them. They make alliances without seeking to please my spirit, they continue to add new sins to other sins. 
2 They plan to go to Egypt in order to take refuge under the protection of Pharaoh, without asking for advice from my mouth. The trust that they have in me is outweighed by the trust that they have in the power of the shadow of Egypt. 
3 Therefore the protection given by Pharaoh will bring shame on you. Your trust in the power of the shadow of Egypt will be the source of your confusion. 
4 For their leaders are already in Zoan, and their messengers have reached Hanes. 
5 They will all be ashamed because of a people who will not be useful to them. A people who cannot rescue them or help them, and who will only bring them shame and embarrassment. 
6 It is the sentence that I have pronounced against these persons who behave like beasts. These persons go through a land of trouble and anguish, where are the lionesses and lions, and vipers, and poisonous flying serpents. And these persons carry their riches on the backs of donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, in order to give it to a people who will not be useful to them. 
7 For the help that they may receive from the Egyptians will not be of any use to them. It will not be able to satisfy their hope. This is why I call this deed 'a noise that leads to nothing' [namely a useless noise]. 
8 Go now, and write it before them on a tablet, and write it in a book. It will be remember in future times, forever and ever. 
9 For they are a rebellious people, they are lying children. They are children who do not want to listen to the law of Yahweh [their father who was the guide of their ancestors]. 
10 They say to the teachers of the law, Do not enlighten us. And they say to the prophets: Do not declare to us the true prophecies, tell us flatteries, prophesy lies. 
11 Turn aside from the way, depart from the path, take away from us the holy one of Israel. 
12 Therefore thus says the holy one of Israel: Because you despise this word, and trust in violence and in detours, and enjoy the way of falseness. 
13 Therefore this iniquity will be for you as a crack on a wall that is thus under the threat of collapse, and that will break suddenly in an instant. 
14 It will be broken like a potter's vessel is broken to pieces. There will not be found among its potsherds a piece that can be used to take a hot coal from the hearth, or to take water from the cistern. 
15 For thus had said the Lord Yahweh, the holy one of Israel: It is in tranquility and rest that you will be saved. It is in calm and confidence in me that you will be strengthened. But you have not wanted to listen. 
16 But you said: No, for we will flee on horses and we will ride those who are the fastest. Therefore you will flee, and your persecutors will be swifter.
17 A thousand among you will flee at the threat of one enemy, and most of you will flee at the threat of five enemies, until you remain like a beacon at the top of a mountain and like a banner on a hill. 
18 However Yahweh desires to be gracious to you, and he will rise up to show you mercy. For Yahweh is a righteous God. Blessed are all those who hope in him. 
19 For a people will dwell in Zion at Jerusalem, you will not weep continuously. Yahweh will have mercy on you at the voice of your cry [and in the view of your true repentance]. He will answer you when he hears you. 
20 The Lord will give you bread in anxiety, and water in distress. Those who instruct you will not hide anymore, but your eyes will see your teachers [for you will understand who they really are]. 
21 And when you turn to the right hand or when you turn to the left hand, your ears will hear behind you the voice that will say: Here is the way, walk in it.
22 .
23 .
24 .
25 .
26 .
27 .
28 .
29 .
30 .
31 .
32 .
33 .
