1 Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek Yahweh. Look to the rock from which you have been hewn, and to the hole of the pit from which you have been dug. 
2 Consider Abraham your father, and Sarah who bore you. For I called him alone, and blessed him, and multiplied him. [And among his descendants who carried his legacy, I approved only those who possessed the love of righteousness like him. This is how I separated the twin brothers Esau and Jacob who were the sons of Isaac who was the son of Abraham and Sarah.] 
3 Surely Yahweh will have compassion on Zion [which is the place where his servant David has chosen to immobilize the ark of the covenant of his God and the altar of sacrifices]. He will have compassion on all her desolations. He will make her desert like Eden, and her wilderness like the garden of Yahweh. Joy and gladness will be found in her, praise and the voice of melody. 
4 Listen to me, O my people. Give ear to me, O my nation. For a law will go forth from me, and I will establish my law for the light of the peoples. 
5 My righteousness is near, my salvation has gone forth, and my arms will judge the peoples. The islands will hope in me, and they will trust in my arm. 
6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look on the earth beneath. For the heavens will vanish like smoke. The earth will wax old like a garment, and its inhabitants will die in like manner. But my salvation will last forever, and my righteousness will not be abolished. 
7 Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose hearts is my law. Do not fear the reproach of men, and do not be dismayed at their insults. 
8 For the moth will eat them like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool. But my righteousness will last forever, and my salvation will be from generation to generation. 
9 Awake, awake. Put on strength, O arm of Yahweh. Awake, as in the days of old, as in the generations of ancient times. Was it not you who struck down Egypt, and pierced the monster. 
10 Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made a way in the depths of the sea for the redeemed to pass through. 
11 So the redeemed of Yahweh will return, and they will come to Zion with singing. And everlasting joy will be on their heads. Gladness and joy will come near, sorrow and sighing will flee away [when I bring back their captive from Babylon from elsewhere]. 
12 I, even I, am he who comforts you. Who are you, so that you should be afraid of a mortal man. Why should you be afraid of the son of man who will be made like grass.
13 Why should you forget Yahweh your maker who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth, and choose to tremble continually every day at the wrath of the oppressor who seeks to destroy. And where is the fury of the oppressor. 
14 The captive [whose minds have been locked out of knowledge] will be delivered. He will not die in the pit, and he will not lack his bread.
15 I am Yahweh your God, the one who divides the sea and makes its waves roar. Yahweh the God of armies is his name. 
16 I have put my words in your mouth [O my chosen one], and have covered you in the shadow of my hand, in order to stretch out new heavens and to lay the foundations of a new earth, and to say to Zion: You are my people. [Now the words new heavens and new earth are simply an analogy.]
17 Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem which has drunk from the hand of Yahweh the cup of his wrath. You have drunk and licked the dregs of the cup of astonishment. [This will happen when I destroy you and send the people into captivity.] 
18 There is none of all the sons whom she has borne who is able to guide her [in the days of her destruction]. There is none of all the sons whom she has raised who is able to take her by the hand [in the days of her destruction]. 
19 The two following things have befallen you, who will mourn for you. Desolation and destruction, and the famine and the sword. By whom will I comfort you. 
20 Your sons have fainted, and they lie at every street corner like a deer in a net. They are full of the wrath of Yahweh, of the rebukes of your God. 
21 Therefore listen to this, you who are miserable and drunken, but not with wine. 
22 Thus says your Lord Yahweh, your God who pleads the cause of his people: Behold I have taken from your hand the cup of trembling, the cup of my wrath. You will no longer drink it [as long as you will be my people]. 
23 I will give it into the hand of those who oppress you [that is to say, those who will be oppressing you when I set you free], those who have said to your soul, 'Bow down, so that we may pass over', and you have made your back like the ground, and have been like a street on which they have gone over.
