1 But darkness will not reign forever on the earth where there is now an anxiety [caused by misunderstanding about the purpose of life and the extent of the flexibility of Yahweh’s commandments]. The ancient times have given little importance to the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali [while the land of Judah was distinguished by being the place where the house of Yahweh is established]. But the times to come will cover with glory the region near the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. 
2 The people who walked in darkness will see a great light. The light will shine on those who dwell in the land of the shadow of death. 
3 You enlarge the nation and increase their joy. They rejoice before you like one rejoices in harvest time, like men rejoice when they divide a spoil. 
4 For the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, and the rod of his oppressor, you have broken them as in the day of Midian [when you freed your people from the oppression of the Midianites]. 
5 For [in the last days] every shoe that is destined to be worn in a battle [that opposes one nation to another], and every garment destined to be rolled in such blood, will be given to the flames to be devoured by the fire. 
6 For a child is born to us, a son is given to us, and the responsibility of guiding the people will be on his shoulders. And his name will be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The prince of peace. 
7 Increase the extent of the empire, and give an endless peace to the throne of David and to his kingdom. To establish it, and to sustain it by righteousness and justice, from henceforth and forever. The zeal of Yahweh the God of armies will perform this. 
8 The Lord send a word into Jacob, and it will fall on Israel. 
9 And all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria who say the following thing in pride and with a haughty heart. 
10 The bricks have fallen, but we will rebuild with hewn stones. Sycamore trees have been cut down, but we will use cedars in their place. 
11 Therefore Yahweh will set on high the adversaries of Rezin, and he will join his enemies together. 
12 And Israel will have the Syrians on the east, and the Philistines on the west. And they will devour Israel with an open mouth. Despite all this, his anger will not be appeased, and his hand will be stretched out again. 
13 For the people does not want to return to the one who smites him, they do no seek Yahweh the God of armies. 
14 Therefore Yahweh will cut off the head and tail of Israel. He will take away the palm branch and reed in one day [that is to say, the strong and the weak of the people]. 
15 The elder and the leaders are the head, and the prophets who teach lies are the tail. 
16 For those who lead this people cause them to err, and therefore those who are led by them are devoured. 
17 Therefore the Lord will not rejoice in their young men, nor have pity on their fatherless and widows. For every one is a hypocrite and a wicked, and every mouth speaks foolishly. Despite all this, his anger will not be appeased, and his hand will be stretched out again. 
18 For wickedness consumes like fire, it devours the briers and the thorns. It will be kindled in the thick of the forest, from which will rise pillars of smoke. 
19 The land will be destroyed by the wrath of Yahweh the God of armies, and the people will be like the fuel of the fire. No man will spare his brother [or his neighbor]. 
20 Those on the right hand will snatch, and will be hungry. Those on the left hand will eat, and will not be satisfied. Every one will eat the flesh of his own arm. 
21 Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim devours Manasseh, and together they come against Judah. Despite all this, his anger will not be appeased, and his hand will be stretched out again.
