1 Afterward a branch will come out of the trunk of Jesse, that is to say, a sprout will grow out of his roots. 
2 And the spirit of Yahweh will stay on him. More precisely the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and strength, the spirit of knowledge of the fear of Yahweh. 
3 Therefore he will be constantly overwhelmed by the fear of Yahweh. So he will not judge according to appearances, nor answer according to rumors. 
4 For he will judge the poor with righteousness, and will decide with equity for the powerless the earth. He will smite the earth with his word as with a rod, and he will kill the wicked with the breath of his lips. 
5 Righteousness and faithfulness will be the girdle of his waist. 
6 The wolf will dwell with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat. The calf will walk alongside the young lion and and fat beasts, and a little child will lead them. 
7 The cow and the bear will graze together, and their young ones will lie down together. And the lion will eat straw like the ox. 
8 The baby of a woman who still sucks the breast will play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child will hold vipers in his hand. 
9 They will not hurt or destroy on all my holy mountain. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of Yahweh, like the bottom of the sea is entirely covered with water. 
10 In that day the root of Jesse will stand for an ensign of the peoples. And the nations will seek him, and his rest will be glorious. 
11 In that day the Lord will have stretched out his hand a second time, to possess the remnant of his people who are scattered in Assyria, and in Egypt, and in Pathros, and in Ethiopia, and in Elam, and in Shinar, and in Hamath, and in the islands of the sea.
12 He will have set up an ensign for the nations, and he will have assembled the outcasts of Israel, and will have gathered together the dispersed of Judah, from the four corners of the earth. 
13 The jealousy of Ephraim will have departed, and his enemies in Judah will have been cut off. Ephraim was no longer jealous of Judah, and Judah was no longer vexed by Ephraim.
14 .
15 .
16 .
