1 Awake, awake O Zion, and put on your strength. Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem the holy city. For from now on neither the uncircumcised nor the unclean will come into you again. [The definitions of these words will change.] 
2 Shake off your dust. Highlight the qualities that make you pure and sit down, O Jerusalem. Loose the bands from around your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. 
3 For thus says Yahweh: You were sold for nothing, and you will be redeemed without money. [Concerning all the laws of Moses that had been given after the people had asked Aaron the brother of Moses to make a god that they could continuously see before their eyes.] 
4 For thus says the Lord Yahweh: My people went down aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there, and later the Assyrian oppressed them without cause [when they came and besieged Judah in the days of king Hezekiah]. 
5 And now what have I to do here, says Yahweh. I have not received a payment to allow my people to be taken away. And those who rule over them cause them to howl, says Yahweh, and my name is continually blasphemed every day. 
6 Therefore my people will know my name [that is to say, my real name]. Therefore they will know in that day that I am the one who used to speak to them. Here I am. 
7 How beautiful they are on the mountains, the feet of him who brings good news and publishes peace. The one who brings good news and publishes salvation. The one who says to Zion: your God reigns.
8 But before that, your watchmen will lift up their voices and shout with one voice. For they will see with their own eyes how Yahweh will restore Zion. 
9 Shout together and rejoice, you the ruins of Jerusalem. For Yahweh has comforted his people, he has redeemed Jerusalem. 
10 Yahweh will uncover his holy arm in the sight of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth will know the salvation of our God [which will be pronounced by the mouth of Cyrus his anointed who does not belong to his people]. 
11 Depart, depart, get out of there. Do not touch any unclean thing, get out of the midst of her. Purify yourselves, you who carry the vessels of Yahweh. 
12 Do not go out in haste, do not go out by running away. For Yahweh will go before you. The God of Israel will gather you together. 
13 And behold, my servant will prosper. He will be exalted and extolled, he will be exalted on high. 
14 Just like many people were astonished when they saw you, because his face was so marred, and his appearance was so different from that of the sons of men. 
15 In this way he will sprinkle his message of true joy on many nations. Kings will shut their mouths when they are enlightened by the exact understanding of the content of his message. For they will learn what they had not heard, and they will see what had not been told to them.
