1 In the year of the death of king Uzziah, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne which was high and wonderful, and whose lower parts was filling the temple. 
2 And seraphim [who are a kind of heavenly beings among angels] were standing above it. Each of them had six wings and were using it in the following way: two of his wings were covering his face, and two others were covering his feet, and two others were used for flying. 
3 And one speaks to another by saying: Holy, holy, holy, thus is Yahweh the God of armies. The whole earth is full of his glory. 
4 And the doorposts vibrated at the sound of the voice of the one who had spoken, and the house was filled with smoke. 
5 Then I said: Woe is me, I will be cut off. For I am a man of polluted lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of polluted lips, and my eyes have seen the King Yahweh the God of armies. 
6 Then one of the seraphim flew to me, and he had in his hand a burning coal which he had taken with tongs from the altar. 
7 And he touched my mouth with the burning coal, and said: Lo, this has touched your lips. Now therefore, your iniquity is taken away and your sin is purged. 
8 And I heard the voice of the Lord which was saying, 'Whom will I send, and who will go for us'. And I said, 'Here I am, send me'. 
9 And he answered: Go and say to this people, You will hear, but you will not understand. And you will see, but you will not perceive. 
10 Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes. Lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed. 
11 Then I said, 'O Lord, how long'. And he answered: Until the cities become desolate and without inhabitants. Until there is no man in the houses, and the land becomes utterly desolate. 
12 Until Yahweh drives them far away, and the land becomes a great wilderness. 
13 And if there remain a tenth part of them, then they will also be destroyed. But as a terebinth tree and as an oak, whose trunk remain when they are cut down, in other words they retain their life in their roots, so a holy seed will arise from this people.
