1 Thus speaks Yahweh: Keep what is right, and practice justice. For my salvation will not be long in coming, and my justice will manifest itself. 
2 Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of the man who remains firm in it. The one who keeps the sabbath so as not to profane it, and who keeps his hand from doing any evil. 
3 And let not the one who clings to Yahweh and who is the son of the foreigner say, 'Yahweh will surely separate me from his people'. And let not the eunuch say, 'Behold I am a dry tree'. 
4 For thus speaks Yahweh to the eunuchs who keep my sabbaths, and who choose to do only the things that please me, and who persevere in my covenant. 
5 Those who act thus will receive in my house and in my walls a place and a name better than that of many of those who are sons and daughters. I will give to each of them an everlasting name that will not be cut off [that is to say, a legacy that will endure forever]. 
6 And the foreigners who will cling to Yahweh to serve him, to love the name of Yahweh and to be his servants, each of those who will keep the sabbath so as not to profane it, and who will persevere in my covenant. 
7 I will bring them to my holy mountain, and I will delight them in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples. 
8 The Lord Yahweh who gathers the people exiled from the land of Israel says the following thing: I will gather other peoples to him, in addition to his own people who will be gathered. 
9 You all the beasts of the fields, come to eat. Yes, you all the beasts of the forest. 
10 But now they are all blind, they do not have knowledge. They are like mute dogs, unable to bark. They lie down and sleep, and delight in sleeping.
11 And they are voracious and insatiable dogs. These are shepherds who cannot understand. For they have all turned to their own way, each one to his benefit. 
12 And they speak thus: Come, and I will look for wine and we will fill ourselves with strong drinks. We will do as much tomorrow, and much more.
