1 Cry out aloud, do not hold back. Lift up your voice like a trumpet, and declare their transgressions to my people. Declare their sins to the house of Jacob. 
2 They pretend to seek me daily, and to desire to know my ways. They behave like a nation that has acted righteously, and has not forsaken the law of their God. They ask me to judge them fairly, they want their God to be near them. 
3 And they say: What good is it for us to fast if you do not look at it. Why must we afflict our souls while you are looking elsewhere.
4 Now therefore listen to me. Behold you indulge your own desires on the day of your fasting, and you behave harshly toward your servants. Behold you argue and quarrel during your fast, and you smite wickedly with your fist. You do not fast as is required on this day, in order to cause your voice to be heard on high. 
5 Can I find pleasure in the fasting that you do. Should this not be a length of time during which man humiliates his soul before me by remembering that he is only vanity. You do not strive to separate yourself from your evil thoughts, but you bow your head like a dying plant near a stream, and you lie down on sackcloths and on ashes. Is this what you call a fasting, a day pleasing to Yahweh. 
6 Now therefore listen to me, here is how to do a fasting that gives me pleasure. Unfasten the chains of wickedness, do not demand hard work from your servants, let the oppressed go free, look for everyone's happiness. 
7 Share your bread with the hungry, and bring the homeless into your house [that is to say, find him a place if you can do it, even if it is in your field, according to what you can know about him because it is not wise to interact without precautions with a person whom you do not know]. If you see someone expressing a need for clothing, then give them what you can. Do not hide from your relatives when they need help. 
8 If you act in this way then your light will emerge like the morning, and the healing of your soul will emerge quickly. Your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of Yahweh will be your reward. 
9 Then you will call, and Yahweh will answer. You will cry, and he will say: Here I am. 
10 If you stop deliberately causing the suffering of others among whom are you servants, if you stop expressing yourself in such a way as to want to grieve the spirits of others, if you stop accusing others when you do not have solid evidence against them. If you allow your soul to have compassion for the hungry, and to seek to refresh the afflicted souls. 
11 Then your light will rise from the darkness, and your darkness will shine like the noonday. For Yahweh will guide you continuously. He will satisfy your soul in dry places, and strengthen your bones. You will be like a watered garden, and like a spring whose waters never fail. 
12 Your people will rebuild the ancient ruins, and you will raise up the foundations for many generations. You will be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of the paths to the enviable dwellings. 
13 If you hold back your foot during the sabbath, and refrain from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and make the sabbath your delight in order to sanctify it. If you glorify Yahweh in this way, if you honor him by not behaving in the way that pleases you. If you do not seek your own pleasure, and if you continuously refrain from speaking vain words [every day]. 
14 Then you will delight yourself in Yahweh, and I will cause you to ride on the high places of the earth, and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father. For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.
