1 All of you who are thirsty, come to the waters. It does not matter if you do not have money, come to buy and eat. Come, I say, in order to buy wine and milk in exchange for something that is free and that is more precious to me than money. 
2 Why do you spend money for what does not really feed you. Why do you work for what does not satisfy you. Now listen to me, and you will really appreciate what you eat, and your soul will take pleasure in the abundance of what will be at your disposal. 
3 Incline your ear and come to me. Listen, and your soul will live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you, in accordance with the promise that I have made to David. 
4 Behold I have set him as a witness to the peoples, a leader and the ruler of the peoples. 
5 Behold you will call nations that you do not know, and nations that do not know you will run to you because of Yahweh your God. I am the holy one of Israel who will exalt you. 
6 Seek Yahweh while he may be found, call on him while he is near. 
7 Let the wicked forsake his evil way, and the unrighteous man his evil thoughts, and let him return to Yahweh who will have mercy on him. Let him come back to our God who is always ready to forgive. [In accordance with all the commandments that I had given to my servant Moses for my people Israel.] 
8 For my thoughts are not like your thoughts, and your ways are not like my ways, says Yahweh. 
9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and so are my thoughts above your thoughts. 
10 And as the rain and the snow come down from the sky, and do not return there without having watered the earth and having caused the plants to sprout and grow, in order to give seed to the sower and bread to the eater. 
11 So is my word that goes out of my mouth. It will not return to me without having had an effect, but it will accomplish what I want and it will prosper in the purpose for which I have sent it. 
12 You will go out with joy, and be led forth with peace. The mountains and the hills will break forth into joy before you, and all the trees of the field will clap their hands. 
13 Instead of the thorn there will grow fir trees, and instead of the brier there will grow myrtle. And this happiness will come to exalt the name of Yahweh, and to serve as a sign whose memory will never fade.
