1 Now listen, O Jacob my servant, and Israel whom I have chosen. 
2 Thus says Yahweh your maker, the one who formed you from the womb and who disciplined you. Fear not, O my servant Jacob, and you the righteous whom I have chosen. 
3 For I will pour water on the thirsty ground, and streams on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit on your seed, and my blessing on your offspring. 
4 And they will spring up among the grass, like willows near the rivers of waters. 
5 One will say in those days, 'I belong to Yahweh'. And another will surname himself with the name of Jacob, and another will write with his hand 'To Yahweh', and will surname himself with the name of Israel. 
6 Thus says Yahweh, the king of Israel and his redeemer, Yahweh the God of armies: I am the first and I am the last, and beside me there is no God. 
7 Who made predictions like me. Let them declare it and set it in order before me, all that they have foretold since I established the ancient peoples. Let them announce what will happen in the future times. 
8 Do not be anxious, and do not be afraid. Have I not declared it to you from the past and publish it. You are my witnesses. Is there any other God besides me. There is no other God, I do not know any. 
9 Those who fashion graven images are all vanity. The things in which they take pleasure are worthless, and serve as witnesses against those who worship them. But these people do not see it and do not understand it, therefore they will be in confusion. 
10 Who should fashion a god or a molten image intended to be worshiped. This does not provide any real profit. 
11 For behold, all those who participate in it will be ashamed. For the craftsmen are simply humans. Let them all be gathered together and stand up. They will fear, and they will be put to shame together. 
12 The blacksmith works with coals and makes an ax, and fashions it with a hammer. He forges it with the strength of his arm. And he loses his strength when he becomes hungry, and he becomes weak if he does not drink water. 
13 The carpenter stretches out a line, and he draws with a pencil. And he shapes the wood with a knife, and draws a border with a compass. He fashions it in the form of a human, and according to the beauty of a human figure, in order to set it in a house. 
14 And there is that other man who hews cedars [to beautify his house]. And he also takes some pine wood and oak wood, which he selects for himself from the trees of the forest. He has planted fir trees, and it is the rain that nourishes them.
15 Man burns of these trees, he uses them to warm himself. He also sets them on fire to bake bread, and he also makes a god out of them to worship it. He uses them to make a graven image, and bows down to it. 
16 He burns half of his wood in the fire, and with it he roasts his meat. He prepares his meal and he is satisfied. He also warms himself, and he says: Ah, I am warmed, I see the flame. 
17 And he makes a god with the residue of the wood, a graven image, and he falls down before it to worship it. And he prays to it, and says: Save me, for you are my god. 
18 They have no understanding, and they do not consider. For God has closed their eyes so that they do not see, and their hearts so that they do not understand. 
19 None of them asks the right questions in his heart, he has neither intelligence nor knowledge to say: I have burned half of it in the fire and baked bread on its coals, and there I have roasted flesh and eaten it. Should I use the residue to make an abomination. Should I worship a piece of wood. 
20 So this person who lacks wisdom feeds his soul with vanity. His seduced heart has led him astray. And he does not have the ability to reason in himself of his own initiative and to say: Is it not a lie that is in my right hand. [That is to say: Am I not giving importance to things that are worthless.] 
21 Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel. For you are my servant. I have disciplined you so that you may be my servant. Do not forget me, O Israel. 
22 I will blot out your transgressions, and they will become like a cloud that is moved away. I will blot out your sins, and they will become like a haze that is dissipated. Turn to me, for I have redeemed you. 
23 You the heavens, rejoice for what Yahweh has done. Shout, you the lower parts of the earth. Break forth into praises, you the mountains, and the forests and each of their trees. For Yahweh has redeemed Jacob, and he glorifies himself in Israel. 
24 Thus says Yahweh your redeemer, the one who has formed you from the womb: I am Yahweh, I have made all things. I alone have stretched out the heavens, and I have spread out the earth by myself. 
25 I am the one who destroy the signs of the liars, and make diviners mad. I cause those who are wise in their own eyes to turn backward, and I turn their knowledge into foolishness. 
26 I confirm the word of my servant, and I perform what my messengers have spoken. I say of Jerusalem, 'It will be inhabited'. And I say of the cities of Judah: They will be rebuilt, I will raise them up from their ruins. 
27 I say to the deep: Be dried up, I will dry up your rivers.
28 I say of Cyrus, 'He is my shepherd, and he will perform all my desires'. He will say of Jerusalem, 'Let it be rebuilt'. And he will say of the temple, 'Let its foundation be laid'.
