1 And in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, it happens that Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah king of Israel the son of Remaliah came up against Jerusalem to war against it, but he could not overcome it. 
2 And it was told the house of David by saying: The Syrians have joined themselves with Ephraim [to fight against us]. And the heart of Ahaz was moved, and also the hearts of the men of his people, as the trees of the forest are moved by the wind. 
3 Then Yahweh said to Isaiah: Go now, you and Shear-jashub your son, to meet Ahaz at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, on the road to the fuller's field. 
4 And you will say to him: Take heed, but do not be afraid. Do not let your heart be troubled by these two stubs of smoking firebrands, by the fierce anger of Rezin and of Syria, and of the son of Remaliah. 
5 Indeed they have plotted evil against you, Syria and Ephraim and the son of Remaliah. And they have said the following thing. 
6 Let us go up against Judah, and besiege the city, and make a breach to enter it, and make the son of Tabeel king over it. 
7 But thus says the Lord Yahweh: Their plans will not be a success, their desire will not be fulfilled. 
8 For Damascus is the head of Syria, and Rezin is the head of Damascus. And within sixty five years, Ephraim will be no more a people. 
9 And Samaria is the head of Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah is the head of Samaria. If you do not believe what I am saying to you, then surely you will not survive. 
10 And Yahweh spoke again to Ahaz with the following words [by the hand of Isaiah]. 
11 Ask Yahweh your God for a sign that you would like to see happen and that will allow you to have confidence in the words that have been told to you. Ask for it to happen in the place of your choice, either in the low places or in the high places. 
12 But Ahaz answered: I will not ask, for I will not test Yahweh. 
13 Then Isaiah said: Hear now, O house of David. Is it because it seems a small thing in your eyes to fatigue the patience of men, that you also want to fatigue that of my God. 
14 Therefore Yahweh himself will give you a sign. For behold, a virgin will conceive and bear a son, and she will call his name Immanuel. 
15 He will eat butter and honey, until he knows to refuse evil and to choose good. 
16 But before the child knows to refuse evil and choose good, the land whose two kings you fear will be forsaken. 
17 Nevertheless Yahweh will bring on you, and on your people, and on your father's house, such days as there have not been since the day when Ephraim separated from Judah. The king of Assyria will come to fight against you. 
18 In that day, Yahweh will hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. '
19 And they will come, and all of them will settle in the desolate valleys, and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all thorny places, and on all bushy places. 
20 In that day, Yahweh will use those who are beyond the great river Euphrates, namely the king of Assyria, in order to punish Judah. And they will be like a razor that is hired to shave the head of Judah, and the hair of the feet, and to remove the beard. 
21 In that day, a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep. 
22 And he will eat butter from the abundance of milk that they will give. For butter and honey will be the food of all those who will remain in the land. 
23 In that day, there will only be briers and thorns in the places where there are now a thousand grapevines worth a thousand shekels of silver. 
24 And people will enter there with arrows and with bows [for the purpose of hunting wild animals], because the whole land will be briers and thorns. 
25 And all the mountains that were usually cultivated with the mattock will no longer be visited, for fear of briers and thorns. The oxen will be sent there to graze, and the sheep will wander there.
