1 And Yahweh said to me: Even if Moses and Samuel were standing before me in the flesh among the men of this people, I would not show favor to this people [and I would save only those who deserve it]. Cast them out of my sight, and let them go. 
2 And if they say to you, 'Where will we go'. Then you will say to them, Thus says Yahweh: Those who are destined to death, to death. And those who are destined to the sword, to the sword. And those who are destined to famine, to famine. And those who are destined to the captivity, to the captivity. 
3 And I will send four kinds of plagues against them, says Yahweh. The sword to kill them, and dogs to tear them in pieces, and birds of the air and beasts of the earth to devour and destroy them.
4 I will also scatter them throughout all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah and king of Judah, because of what he did in Jerusalem. 
5 Who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem. Who will feel sorry for what will happen to you. Who will go and pray for your peace. 
6 You have forsaken me, says Yahweh, and you have gone backward. Therefore I will stretch out my hand against you and destroy you, for I am weary of having compassion. 
7 I will fan them with the wind at the gates of the land. I will deprive my people of children and destroy them, all those who have not turned away from their evil ways. 
8 Their widows will be more numerous than the sand of the sea. And I will bring against them, against the mothers of the young men, a destroyer who will strike at noonday. I will suddenly bring anguish and terror on the people of Judah. 
9 She who had given birth to seven sons will become desolate [because they have perished], and her heart will fail. Her sun sets while it is still day, she is confused and ashamed. And I will give the residue of them to the sword of their enemies, says Yahweh. 
10 O my mother, says Jeremiah, I am sorry that you have given birth to me. For I am a man of contention and strife for the whole earth. I do not borrow or lend, but nevertheless every one does curse me. 
11 But I serve you wholeheartedly, O Yahweh. In times of disaster and trouble, I pray to you for those who are wrongly my enemies. 
12 Can iron break the iron or the brass made in the north. [Says Yahweh.] 
13 I will freely give your possessions and your treasures to plunder, you the people of Judah, because of all your sins throughout all your territory. 
14 And I will make you go with your enemies into a land that you do not know. For the fire of my anger has been kindled, and it is burning against you. 
15 You know everything, O Yahweh. Remember me and visit me, and avenge me of my persecutors. Do not take me away in the continuation of your anger. You know that I suffer reproach for your sake. 
16 Your words came to me, and I devoured them. The fact that these words came from you has filled my heart with joy and comfort, despite the fact that their content has grieved my heart. For I am called by your name, O Yahweh the God of armies. 
17 I have not sat in the assembly of scoffers to rejoice. I sat alone because of your right hand that is on me, for you have filled me with indignation. 
18 Why is my pain continual. Why is my feeling painful and refuses to heal. You make me feel like a spring of water that became dry, like a spring whose water has stopped flowing. 
19 Therefore thus says Yahweh: O Jeremiah, you are losing your way in your reasoning. If you return to me, then I will bring you back to me, and you will stand before me. If you separate the precious from the vile, in other words if you refrain from saying useless words, then you will be like my mouth. The people of Judah should change and come back to you, but do not change by becoming like them. 
20 And you will be like a strong wall of brass toward this people. They will fight against you, but they will not prevail against you. For I am with you to protect you and to save you, says Yahweh. 
21 And I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem you out of the hand of the violent.
