1 Hear the word that Yahweh speaks to you, O house of Israel. 
2 Thus says Yahweh: Do not behave like other nations. Do not be afraid by the signs of the sky, like the nations who are afraid of those things. 
3 For the customs of the peoples are vanity. One cuts a tree in the forest, and the hands of a craftsman shape it with an axe. 
4 And they adorn it with silver and with gold. They fasten it with nails and with hammers, so that it may not be easily moved. 
5 These gods are set up like a palm tree, and they do not speak. They have been carried because they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do harm and they do not have the power to do good. 
6 There is none like you, O Yahweh. You are great, and your name is great and powerful. 
7 Who should not fear you, O King of the nations. For it is to you that the supremacy belongs. For among all the wise men of the nations, and among all the gods of their kingdoms, there is none like you. 
8 All of them are stupid and foolish. Some of them hope to receive their teaching from worthless pieces of wood. 
9 Others bring plates of silver from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the workman and of the hands of the goldsmith. The clothes of these gods are of fabrics dyed in blue and purple, and all these things are the work of skilful men. 
10 But Yahweh is the true God. He is the living God, and an everlasting King. The earth trembles at his anger, and the nations cannot bear his fury. 
11 Tell them the following thing: The gods who have not made the heavens and the earth will perish from the earth and from under the heavens. 
12 He has created the earth by his power, and he has established the world by his wisdom, and he has stretched out the heavens by his understanding. 
13 The waters roar in the sky when he raises his voice to command it, he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He makes lightnings and rain, and he brings the wind from his treasuries. 
14 Every man who trusts only his own wisdom will be made stupid, and every goldsmith will be put to shame by his graven image. For his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in it. 
15 They are worthless, a work of deceit. They will perish at the time of their judgment. 
16 He who is the portion of Jacob is not like those things. For he is the one who has formed everything, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance. Yahweh the God of armies is his name. 
17 Carry what you possess away from the land, O you the inhabitants of the strong place. 
18 For thus says Yahweh: Behold this time I will throw the inhabitants out of the land, as with a slingshot. And I will trouble them so that they feel my anger. 
19 And I Jeremiah, I say concerning the land of my people: Woe is me, for I am broken and my wound is grievous. But I say, This is my sorrow and I must bear it. 
20 My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken. My children have left me, they are no more. I have no one to spread my tent again, to set up my curtains. [Says Yahweh.]
21 For the shepherds have been foolish, they have not sought Yahweh. Therefore they have not prospered, and all their livestock are scattered. 
22 Behold a noise is heard, a great tumult comes from the north. They come to make the cities of Judah a desolation, and a den of jackals. 
23 O Yahweh, I know that the way of man is not under his power. It is not man who directs his steps when he walks. [Says Jeremiah.] 
24 Chastise me because of your justice, O Yahweh. But do not do it in your anger, lest you destroy me. 
25 Pour out your fury on the nations that do not know you, and on the families that do not call on your name. For they devour Jacob, they devour him and consume him, and they ravaged his dwelling.
