1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah. It was in the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. 
2 Jeremiah the prophets declared it to all the people of Judah and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the following word. 
3 The word of Yahweh came to me from the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon and king of Judah, twenty three years ago, and it has continued to this day. And I have spoken to you, rising early in the morning and speaking, and you have not obeyed. 
4 And Yahweh has sent to you all his servants the prophets, rising early in the morning and sending them, but you have not wanted to pay attention and you have not obeyed. 
5 They have said: Return now from your evil ways, from the evil of your doings, each of you. And you will dwell in the land that Yahweh has given to you and to your fathers, forever and ever. 
6 Do not go after other gods to serve them or to worship them. Do not provoke me to anger by the work of your hands, and I will not hurt you. 
7 But you have not wanted to obey me, says Yahweh. And you have provoked me to anger by the work of your hands, in order to harm yourselves. 
8 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Because you have not obeyed my words. 
9 Behold I will send and take all the families of the north, says Yahweh, and Nebuchadrezzar my servant who is the king of Babylon. And I will bring them against this land of Judah, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations who are around it. And I will destroy those lands [by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar my servant], and they will become perpetual desolations, and a subject of astonishment and of hissing. 
10 I will bring an end to the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness in those places, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones and the light of the lamps. 
11 For this whole land will become a desolation, and a subject of astonishment, and these peoples will serve the king of Babylon for seventy years. [More precisely the kings of Babylon, Nebuchadrezzar and his successors who will be by this fact his spiritual children.] 
12 And when seventy years are accomplished, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, says Yahweh, because of their iniquities [which will be found at that time]. I will punish the land of the Chaldeans, and I will make it a perpetual desolation. 
13 .
14 .  
15 . 
16 . 
17 .
18 .
19 .
20 .
21 .
22 .
23 .
24 .
25 .
26 .
27 .
28 .
29 .
30 .
31 .
32 .
33 .
34 .
35 .
36 .
37 .
38 .
