1 And behold, Yahweh made me see two baskets of figs that were placed in front of the temple of Yahweh, after Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon Jeconiah [also called Jehoiachin] the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, and the princes [leaders] of Judah, with the workmen and the craftsmen of Jerusalem. 
2 One of the baskets contained very good figs, like the figs of the first harvest, and the other basket had very bad figs that could not be eaten because of their bad quality. 
3 Then Yahweh said to me, 'What do you see, Jeremiah'. And I replied: Figs. The good figs are very good, and the bad figs are so bad that they cannot be eaten because of their bad quality. 
4 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
5 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of Israel: As you have recognized these good figs, so I will recognize the good quality of [many among] the captives of Judah whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans. 
6 And I will look at them with a favorable eye, and I will bring them back to this land. And I will build them, and I will not destroy them. I will plant them, and I will not uproot them. [Now Yahweh is talking about their legacies, and not necessarily their physical bodies.] 
7 For I will give them a heart to know me, and they will know that I am Yahweh. And they will be my people, and I will be their God, for they will return to me each with his whole heart. 
8 And thus says Yahweh: As you have recognized the bad figs that cannot be eaten because of their bad quality, so I will give up Zedekiah the king of Judah, and his princes [leaders], and [many among] the residue of Jerusalem who remain in this land and those who dwell in the land of Egypt. 
9 I will make them an object of disgust for all the kingdoms of the earth, an object of reproach and a proverb, an object of sarcasm and a curse, in all the places where I will drive them. 
10 And I will send against them the sword, and the famine, and the pestilence, until they disappeared from the land that I gave to them and to their fathers.
