1 Woe to the pastors who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, says Yahweh. 
2 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, concerning the pastors who feed my people: You have scattered my flock and driven them away, and have not cared for them. Behold I will punish you for the wickedness of your doings, says Yahweh. 
3 And I will gather the remnant of my sheep from all the countries where I will have driven them, and will bring them back to their pasture. And they will be fruitful and multiply. 
4 And I will set up shepherds over them, to feed them. And they will fear no more, nor be dismayed, and none will be missing, says Yahweh. 
5 Behold the days are coming, says Yahweh, when I will bring forth a righteous branch to David. He will reign like a king and will prosper, and will execute judgment and justice on the earth. 
6 In his days Judah will be saved [from its sins], and Israel will dwell safely. And this is the name by which he will be called: Yahweh our righteousness. 
7 Therefore behold, says Yahweh, the days are coming when they will no longer say: Yahweh is alive, he who brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
8 But they will say: Yahweh is alive, he who has brought the seed of the house of Israel out of the country of the north and out of all the countries where I had driven them. And the will dwell in their own land. 
9 My heart is broken within me, and all my bones tremble, says Jeremiah, because of the false prophets. I am like a drunken man, like a man whom wine has overcome, because of Yahweh and because of his holy words. 
10 For the land is full of adulterers, and the land will mourn greatly because of the curse [that was proclaimed in our covenant with Yahweh]. The pleasant places of the wilderness will be dried up. For the people run to evil, and their strength is only for iniquity. 
11 The prophets and the priests are corrupted, and I have found their wickedness even in my house [which has been built to bear my name], says Yahweh. 
12 Therefore their way will be slippery and dark, they will be pushed and will fall. For I will bring a disaster on them in the year that I will punish them, says Yahweh. 
13 I had seen folly in the prophets of Samaria. For they prophesied by Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.
14 But I have seen horrible things in the prophets of Jerusalem. They commit adultery, and they walk in falseness. They strengthen the hands of the evildoers, so that no one may turn away from his wickedness. They are all like Sodom in my sight, and the inhabitants of the land are like Gomorrah. 
15 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies concerning the prophets: Behold I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink poisonous waters. For wickedness has gone forth throughout all the land because of the prophets of Jerusalem. 
16 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, and who teach you vanity. They speak of the visions of their own hearts, and not by the mouth of Yahweh. 
17 They say to those who despise me, 'Yahweh has said: You will have peace'. And they say to all those who follow the stubbornness of their own hearts, 'No evil will come on you'. 
18 Who among them has stood in the council of Yahweh to see and hear his word. Who among them has paid attention to his testimonies in order to hear his word. 
19 Behold the tempest of Yahweh will break forth because of his fury. A violent whirlwind will fall on the heads of the wicked. 
20 The anger of Yahweh will not return, until he has executed and finished the intents of his heart. You will understand it clearly in the latter days. 
21 I have not sent these prophets, and nevertheless they run to speak in my name. I have not spoken to them, and nevertheless they prophesy in my name. 
22 If they had stood in my council, then they would have declared my words to my people, and my people would have turned away from their evil ways and from the wickedness of their imaginations. 
23 Am I God only for people who want to get closer to me by their behavior, says Yahweh. Am I not also a God who reigns over those who are far away from me by their behavior. 
24 Can anyone escape from my sight by hiding himself in a secret place, says Yahweh. Do I not fill the heaven and the earth, says Yahweh. 
25 I have heard what the prophets have said, those persons who prophesy falsely in my name by saying: I have had a vision in a dream, I have had a vision in a dream. 
26 How long will the prophets take pleasure in prophesying falsely. They desire to prophesy the deceptions imagined by their own hearts.
27 Do they think that all of my people will forget my name, namely my true nature, when each one tells his neighbor false dreams or dreams that are not visions. This is how their fathers had forgotten my name to worship Baal. 
28 If a prophet has a dream, then let him tell it without forgetting to specify that it is only a dream. And if a prophet receives my word, then let him report my word faithfully. Why mix the straw with the wheat, says Yahweh. 
29 Is not my word like a fire, says Yahweh. Is not my word like a hammer that breaks rocks into pieces. 
30 Therefore behold, says Yahweh, I am against the prophets who steal my words every one from his neighbor [with the intention of presenting himself as the one who has received that word from my mouth]. 
31 And behold, says Yahweh, I am against the prophets who use their tongues to attribute to me the words that I have not said to them personally. For they speak by saying: He has said. 
32 And behold, says Yahweh, I am against those who prophesy by telling false dreams which they have imagined in their hearts. They cause my people to err by their lies and by their vain boasting. I have not sent them, and I have not spoken to them. Therefore they do not give any advantage to this people, says Yahweh. 
33  As for you, Jeremiah, if someone of this people of Judah, or a prophet, or a priest, comes to you and asks you, 'What is the burden from Yahweh'. Then you will answer them, 'What burden. I will even abandon you, says Yahweh'. 
34 And concerning the prophet, or the priest, or the one of the people who will say, 'The burden from Yahweh'. I will punish that person and his house. 
35 You will say every one to his neighbor, and every one to his brother, 'What has Yahweh answered. What has Yahweh spoken'. 
36 But you will no longer say, 'The burden from Yahweh'. For the burden of every man will be his own words. For you have perverted the words of the living God, of Yahweh the God of armies who is our God. 
37 So you will question a prophet by saying, 'What has Yahweh answered. What has Yahweh spoken'. 
38 And if you say again, 'The burden from Yahweh'. Then  thus says Yahweh: Because you say this word, 'The burden from Yahweh', despite the fact that I have sent to tell you, 'You will not say: The burden from Yahweh'. 
39 Therefore behold, I will utterly forget you and I will reject you, you and the city that I had given to you and to your fathers. And I will cast you away far from my face. [You to whom I am speaking.] 
40 And I will bring on you an everlasting reproach. It will be a perpetual shame that will never be forgotten.
