1 At that time, says Yahweh, they will bring out of their graves the bones of [some of] the kings of Judah, and the bones of [some of] its leaders, and the bones of [some of] the priests, and the bones of [some of] the prophets, and the bones of [some of] the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
2 And they will spread them out before the sun and the moon, and before all the armies of the heaven [that is to say, all the stars], those things that theses dead persons had loved [during a part of their lives], and had served, and had followed, and had sought, and had worshiped. They will not be gathered or reburied, but they will be like dung on the face of the earth. 
3 And death will be desired rather than life by all the residue that will remain from this wicked family, in all the places where I will lead them, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
4 Should not a person who falls try to get up. Should not a person who gets lost reorient himself when he become aware of it. 
5 Why then do these people of Jerusalem turn away by a continual rebellion. They persist in deceit, they refuse to repent. 
6 I pay attention and listen, but they do not speak as they should. No one repents of his wickedness, no one says, 'What have I done'. Each one goes back to his way, like a horse rushing into battle. 
7 Even the stork in the sky knows her appointed times. The turtledove and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their migration. But my people do not know the law of Yahweh. 
8 How can you say, 'We are wise, the law of Yahweh is with us'. And lo, it is in vain that the scribes have used a lying pen [and thus have written falsely]. 
9 The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed, they are taken. And lo, this is because they have despised the word of Yahweh. What wisdom do they have now. 
10 Therefore I will give their wives to others, and their fields to those who will possess them. For everyone is greedy for gain, from the least to the greatest. And everyone acts falsely, from the prophet to the priest.
11 For they have healed the wound of the daughter of my people slightly by saying 'Peace, peace', while there is no peace.
12 Were they ashamed when they had committed abominations. No, they were not at all ashamed and they could not blush. Therefore they will fall among those who will fall. They will be cast down when I visit them, says Yahweh. 
13 I will surely devour them, says Yahweh. There will be no more grapes on the vine, no more figs on the fig tree, and the leaves will wither. I will take away what I had given them. 
14 Why do we stay here. Gather yourselves, and let us go and take refuge into the fortified cities in order to perish there. For Yahweh our God has appointed us to die. He has given us a poisoned water to drink, because we have sinned against Yahweh. 
15 We looked for peace, but nothing good has come. We looked for a time of healing, and behold, there is troubles. 
16 The neighing of his horses is heard from Dan, and the whole land trembles at the sound of their neighing of his strong horses. For they come in order to devour the land and everything in it, the city and those who dwell in it. 
17 For behold, I will send snakes among you, vipers that no one can charm. They will bite you, says Yahweh. 
18 And I Jeremiah, I want to relieve my pain but my heart suffers inside me. 
19 Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people is heard because of those who have come from a distant land. And that voice says, 'Is not Yahweh in Zion. Does not its true king dwell in the city'. And Yahweh says: Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images and with their strange futilities. 
20 The harvest is past, the summer is ended, yet we are not saved [for the enemy continues to besiege the city]. 
21 And I Jeremiah, I am now distressed because of the future pain of the daughter of my people. I am full of sorrow, dismay has seized me. 
22 Is there no balm in Gilead. Is there no physician there. Why then is the healing of the daughter of my people not accomplished.
