1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 Go and proclaim in the ears of Jerusalem the following thing: Thus says Yahweh, I remember the kindness that you had in your youth, when you loved me like a faithful bride and followed me in the wilderness, in a land that was not cultivated. 
3 The people of Israel were holy to Yahweh, they were the firstfruits of his harvest. At that time all those who tried to harm them were guilty and were rewarded by calamities that came on them, says Yahweh. 
4 Hear the word of Yahweh, O house of Jacob [who is now in the land of Judah], and you all the families of the house of Israel [who are everywhere]. 
5 Thus says Yahweh, What is the injustice that your fathers have found in me. What is their justification for turning away from me. They have departed from me to follow vanity, and they have become worthless. 
6 And they did not say: Where is Yahweh who brought us up out of the land of Egypt. The one who led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought and of the shadow of death, through a land that no man passed through and where no man dwelt. 
7 And I brought you into a land that is like a fruitful field, to eat its fruit and its choicest produce. But when you entered, you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination. 
8 The priests did not ask themselves, 'Where is Yahweh'. Those who are the keepers of the law [among the families of the children of Israel] have not sought to know me. The rulers of the people have also transgressed against me, and the prophets have prophesied by Baal and have followed things that do not give a real benefit. 
9 Therefore I will contend with you, says Yahweh, and I will contend with your children's children. 
10 Go across the sea to the islands of Kittim, and see. Send someone to the land of Kedar and observe diligently, to see if there is such a thing. 
11 Has any nation ever changed its gods. They remain faithful to their false gods, while my people have changed their glory for that which does not give a real benefit. 
12 Be astonished at this thing, O you the heavens. Shudder and be greatly horrified, says Yahweh. 
13 For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, I the fountain of the water of life, and they have hewn out for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. 
14 Is Israel a servant or is he a son born in the house [of the spirit of Yahweh]. Why then has he become a prey [in the sight of Yahweh who is the possessor of all things]. 
15 The young lions have roared against Israel, and have yelled. They have made his land waste. His cities have been burned with fire, and have become without inhabitants. 
16 And the children of Noph and Tahpanhes have broken the crown of your head. 
17 Did not all this happen to you because of yourself. For you have forsaken Yahweh your God, the one who was leading you in the way. 
18 And now, what did you get when you went in the way of Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile. What did you get when you went in the way of Assyria to drink the waters of the river Euphrates. 
19 Your own wickedness will punish you, and your backsliding will rebuke you. You will know and see that it is an evil and bitter thing to forsake Yahweh your God, and that you do not have the fear of me, says the Lord Yahweh the God of armies. 
20 For you have broken your yoke long ago in order to separate yourself from me, you have torn your bonds apart, and you have said, 'I will not serve you'. For you have gone on every hill and under every green tree, in order to prostitute your soul. 
21 I had planted you like one plants a special vine, a completely correct seed. How then have you become to me the plants of a strange vine. 
22 Your iniquity will be marked before me, even if you wash yourself with nitre and use much soap, says the Lord Yahweh.
23 How can you say, 'I have not defiled myself, I have not gone after Baalim'. Look at your steps in the valley, and recognize what you have done. You are like a swift dromedary running along its paths. 
24 Or like a wild female donkey accustomed to the wilderness, when she is sniffing the wind because she is eager to copulate. Who can prevent her from satisfying her desire. All the male who seek her do not need to weary themselves. They will find her in her month.
25 I say, 'Keep your foot from being unshoed, and your throat from thirst [that is to say, do not continue in your evil way]'. But you say, 'There is no hope, no. For I love foreign gods and I will follow them'. 
26 The house of Israel will be confused like a thief who is confused when he is found. They, and their kings, and their princes [leaders], and their priests, and their prophets [who prophesy lies to you]. 
27 For they say to a tree, 'You are my father'. And they say to a stone, 'You have given me life'. For they have turned their backs on me instead of turning their faces towards me. But when they are in trouble, they say: Arise, and help us. 
28 Where are your gods that you have made for yourself. Let them arise, if they can help you in the time of your trouble. For your gods are as many as your cities, O Judah. 
29 Why would you want to argue with me. You all have rebelled against me, says Yahweh. 
30 I have smitten your children in vain, for they have not heeded my reproofs. Your own sword has devoured your prophets, like a destroying lion. 
31 O generation, pay attention to the word of Yahweh. Have I been like a wilderness for Israel, or like a land of darkness. Why do my people say, 'We are free, we will not return to you'. 
32 Does a young woman forget her jewelry, or a bride her attire. Yet my people have forgotten me since days without number. 
33 How clever you are in your ways to seek what you love. Even the wicked women [who are already sufficiently malicious] could be taught by the evil behavior of my people. 
34 The blood of the souls of poor innocents can be found in your wings [that is to say, in the source of your strength]. You did not have the necessary justifications to hit them. 
35 Yet you say, 'I am innocent, surely his anger will turn away from me'. Behold I will enter into judgment with you, because you say: I have not sinned. 
36 Why are you so eager to seek help from place to place instead of looking for me. You will find only confusion in Egypt, as you had found only confusion in Assyria. 
37 You will also go out from there with your hands on your head. For Yahweh has rejected those in whom you trust, and you will not prosper with them.
