1 The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a diamond. It is engraved on the tablets of stone of your wicked hearts, and on the horns of your altars. [That is to say, your altars that you build illegally everywhere to offer sacrifices to your other gods, without worrying about the method and categories of offerings indicated in my law.] 
2 They continually remember their altars, and their groves which are under the green trees on the high hills, in the same way that they remember their children. 
3 O my mountain and its fields, I will give your possessions and all your treasures to be plundered, because of the sin of your high places throughout your territory. 
4 You will lose the inheritance that I gave you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know. For you have kindled the fire of my anger, and it will burn forever. 
5 Thus says Yahweh: Cursed be the person who puts his trust in humans. For his heart has turned away from Yahweh, since he hopes in the wisdom and strength of men. 
6 Such a person is like a tree that is isolated in the desert, and cannot receive the blessings granted to those who have understanding. He is like the one who dwells in a desolate place of the wilderness, a salty land without an inhabitant. 
7 Blessed is the man who trusts in Yahweh, the one whose hope is Yahweh. 
8 He is like a tree planted near a freshwater spring, which spreads out its roots near a freshwater river. It does not feel the effects of heat, and its leaves remain green. He does not worry about the year of drought, and does not cease to produce fruit. 
9 The heart can be deceitful above all things, and exceedingly wicked. Who can know it. 
10 I Yahweh, I probe the heart and test the mind, in order to give to each person according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds. 
11 As a partridge that sits on eggs that she has not laid, so is the one who gets riches by unrighteous methods. In the midst of his days he will leave them, and in the end he will be a fool. 
12 Yahweh is a throne of glory. He is exalted from the beginning, like the place of our sanctuary [that he has established among us]. 
13 O Yahweh, you are the hope of Israel. All those who forsake you will be put to shame. Those who turn away from you will not endure on earth, because they have forsaken Yahweh who is the fountain of the water of life. 
14 Heal me, O Yahweh, and I will be healed. Save me, and I will be saved. For you are the object of my praise. 
15 Behold they say to me: Where is the word of Yahweh. Let it be fulfilled so that we may see it. 
16 You know it, O Yahweh, I have not desired to turn away from you. I have not refused to be a shepherd, and I have not desired the day of trouble [that you have announced by my mouth]. You know why I have said everything that came out of my lips. 
17 Do not be a terror to me. You are my hope in the day of adversity. 
18 Let my persecutors be put to shame, and let me not be put to shame. Let them tremble, and let me not tremble. Bring the day of evil on them, and destroy them with a double destruction.
19 .
20 .
21 .
22 .
23 .
24 .
25 .
26 .
27 .
