1 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest. 
2 He sent them to tell Jeremiah: Inquire of Yahweh for us, I pray you. For Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps Yahweh will perform some of his wondrous works for us, so that the enemy may depart from us. 
3 Then Jeremiah answered them by saying: You will speak thus to Zedekiah. 
4 Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Behold I will make useless the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which you intend to fight against the king of Babylon and the Chaldeans who are outside the wall of the city and who are besieging you. For the enemy will enter into the midst of the city of Jerusalem. 
5 And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, because of my anger, and my fury, and my great indignation. 
6 For I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and animals, and many will die of a great pestilence. 
7 And after that, says Yahweh, I will deliver Zedekiah the king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, all those who will be alive in this city after the destruction caused by the pestilence, and by the famine, and by the sword [for they will even fight against each other in distress]. They will all be delivered into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their lives. And Nebuchadrezzar will smite them with the edge of the sword. He will not spare them, he will have neither mercy nor compassion. 
8 And you will say to this people of Judah: Thus says Yahweh, Behold I set before you the way of life and the way of death. 
9 Whoever will remain in this city will die by the sword, or by the famine, or by the pestilence. But whoever will go outside to give himself to the Chaldeans who are besieging the city will live, and his life will be for him like a loot of war. 
10 For I have set my face against this city in order to do evil and not to do good, says Yahweh. It will be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire. 
11 And you will say to the house of the king of Judah: Hear the word of Yahweh. 
12 O house of David, thus says Yahweh: Execute justice in the morning, and deliver the oppressed out of the hand of the oppressor. Lest my anger flare up like fire and burn without there being anyone able to quench it, because of the evil of your doings. 
13 Behold I am against you, O inhabitants of the valley, and of the rock of the plain, says Yahweh, you who are saying: Who will come down against us. Who will enter into our habitations. 
14 I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says Yahweh. And I will kindle a fire in your forest, and it will devour all that is around it.
