1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah. It was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar. 
2 The army of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem at that time, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the courtyard of the guards that was in the house of the king of Judah. 
3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had Jeremiah imprisoned, by saying: Why do you prophesy by saying, 'Thus says Yahweh, Behold I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will take it'. 
4 And Zedekiah king of Judah will not escape from the hand of the Chaldeans, but will surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon. And Zedekiah will speak to the king of Babylon mouth to mouth, and they will look each other in the eyes. 
5 And the king of Babylon will take Zedekiah to Babylon, where he will remain until I remember him, says Yahweh. Therefore you will not succeed in your fight against the Chaldeans. [These are the words that Zedekiah had said to Jeremiah to justify his imprisonment.] 
6 Now Jeremiah said [concerning those days]: The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
7 Behold Hanamel the son of your uncle Shallum will come to you and say: Buy my field that is in Anathoth. For you must be privileged among all buyers because of the right of redemption that you possess by the fact of being the nearest kinsman. 
8 And Hanamel the son of my uncle came to me in the courtyard of the prison, according to the word of Yahweh, and said to me: Buy my field that is in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, I pray you. Buy it for yourself, because you have the right of redemption. 
9 And I knew that it was the word of Yahweh. And I bought the field that was in Anathoth and that belonged to Hanamel the son of my uncle. I weighed him the money, seventeen shekels of silver. 
10 I wrote a deed of sale and purchase, and sealed it, and took witnesses, and weighed the money on a scale.
11 Then I took the deed of sale and purchase, the copy that was sealed according to the law and custom, and the copy that was unsealed. 
12 And I gave the deed of sale and purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah the son of Mahseiah, in the sight of Hanamel the son of my uncle, and in the sight of the witnesses who had signed the deed of sale and purchase, and in the sight of all the Jews who were in the courtyard of the prison. 
13 And I commanded Baruch before them with the following words. 
14 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Take these writings, this deed of sale and purchase that is sealed and the one that is unsealed, and put them in an earthen vessel so that they may be preserved for a long time. 
15 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards will again be bought in this land. [For the king of Babylon will succeed in destroying this city that he is besieging, and in sending the people into captivity, but later my people will return to this land and the activities of social life will be restored.] 
16 And I prayed to Yahweh with the following words, after I had given the deed of sale and purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah. 
17 Ah Lord Yahweh, behold you have made the heaven and earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm. Nothing can be too difficult for you. 
18 You preserve your love to a thousand generations, and you repay the iniquity of the fathers into the chest of their children after them. You are the great God, the mighty. Yahweh the God of armies is his name. 
19 You are great in counsel and mighty in work. Your eyes are open on all the ways of the sons of men, to give to each one according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings. 
20 You have performed signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and even to this day, both in Israel and among other men, and you made a name for yourself as it appears this day. 
21 You have brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with a great terror. 
22 And you have given them this land that you swore to their fathers to give them, a land where milk and honey flow. 
23 And they came and took possession of it. But afterward they did not obey your voice, nor walk in your law. They have not done all that you commanded them, and therefore you have brought all this evil on them.
24 Behold the mounds are raised against the city by the enemy who wants to take it. And the city will be given into the hand of the Chaldeans who are fighting against it, and it will happen by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. What you have announced is happening now as you see it. [Now Elohim is the one who causes all things to happen, and Yahweh is the holy spirit of Elohim, but Yahweh has said that he himself is Elohim and the only Elohim.]
25 And now you have said to me, O Lord Yahweh, 'Buy a field for yourself with money, and call witnesses'. And you have said this thing to me while the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans. [How am I going to enjoy this possession since I have neither wife nor children.] 
26 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
27 Behold I am Yahweh, the God of all flesh [that is to say, the God of every living creature]. Is there anything too difficult for me. 
28 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Behold I will give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he will take it.
29 The Chaldeans who are fighting against this city will enter and set fire on this city, and burn it. They will burn the houses on whose roofs people have offered incense to Baal and poured out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger. 
30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done only evil in my sight from their youth. For the children of Israel have only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, says Yahweh. 
31 For this city has provoked my anger and my fury from the day that they built it until this day. Therefore I will remove it from my sight. 
32 Because of all the evil that the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done to provoke me to anger, they, and their kings, and their leaders [princes], and their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
33 And they have turned their backs to me, not their faces. I have taught them continually, rising early in the morning and teaching them, but they have not wanted to listen to receive instruction. 
34 And they have set their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to defile it. 
35 And they have built the high places of Baal in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to be burned in the fire as offerings to the false god Molech. It is something that I had not commanded them. It had never even entered my mind that they could commit such abominations to cause Judah to sin. 
36 And now thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say: It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
37 Behold I will gather them from all the countries where I will have driven them in my anger, and in my fury, and in great indignation. And I will bring them back to this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely. 
38 And they will be my people, and I will be their God.
39 And I will give them one heart and one way, so that they may fear me forever, for their own good and for the good of their children after them. 
40 And I will make an everlasting covenant with them. I will not turn away from them, but I will do them good. I will put my fear in their hearts, so that they will not depart from me. 
41 Yes, I will delight in doing them good, and I will assuredly plant them in this land with my all my heart and with all my soul. 
42 For thus says Yahweh: As I will have brought all this great disaster on this people, so I will bring on them all the good that I have promised them. 
43 And fields will be bought in this land of which you say: It will be a wilderness without man or beast, it has been given into the hands of the Chaldeans. 
44 Fields will be bought for money, deeds of sale and purchase will be written and sealed, and witnesses will be called, in the land of Benjamin, and in the areas around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the hill-country, and in the cities of the plain, and in the cities of the south. For I will cause their captives to return, says Yahweh.
