1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard had sent him away from Ramah, when he had taken Jeremiah from among the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were bonded in chains to be carried away to Babylon. 
2 The chief of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him: Yahweh your God has pronounced this evil against this place. 
3 Now Yahweh has brought it, and has done according what he had spoken. For you have sinned against Yahweh [that is to say, your people], and have not obeyed his voice, and therefore this thing has come on you. 
4 And now, behold I release you today from the chains that are on your hands. If you want to come with me into Babylon, then you can come and I will take care of you. But if it displeases you to come with me into Babylon, then do not come. Look, the whole land is before you and you can go wherever it seems good and convenient for you. 
5 And while Jeremiah delayed in answering, Nebuzaradan added, 'Return to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has made governor over all the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or you can go wherever it pleases you to go'. Then the chief of the guard gave him food and gifts, and let him go. 
6 Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, to Mizpah, and dwelt with him among the people who remained in the land. 
7 Now all the captains of the army who were in the fields with their men heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor of the land, and had entrusted to him the men, and the women, and the children, and the poor of the land, all those who had not been carried away captive to Babylon. 
8 Then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah. They were Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of a Maacathite, they and their men. 
9 And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan swore to them and to their men by saying: Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will be well with you.
10 As for me, behold I will dwell at Mizpah in order to stand before the Chaldeans who will come to us. But you, gather the wine and the summer fruits and the oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities where you were established. 
11 Now all the Jews who were in the land of Moab, and among the Ammonites, and in the land of Edom, and in all the other lands, they heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of the people in Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan. 
12 And all those Jews returned from all the places where they had been scattered, and came into the land of Judah to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And they made a plentiful harvest of wine and summer fruits. 
13 Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army who were in the fields, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. 
14 And they said to him, 'Do you know that Baalis the king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to kill you'. But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam did not believe them. 
15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke privately to Gedaliah at Mizpah by saying: I pray you to let me go and kill Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know anything about it. Why should he kill you. Why should all the people of Judah who have gathered around you be scattered, and the remnant of Judah perish. 
16 But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah: Do not do this thing, because what you have said about Ishmael is not true. [Now Gedaliah may think that Johanan is lying, or that he has misinterpreted a conversation, or that he has been deceived by some other people.]
