1 In the fourth year of the reign of Zedekiah the son of Josiah king of Judah, the following word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh. 
2 Thus says Yahweh to me: Make a yoke out of straps and poles, and put it on your neck. 
3 And you will send similar yokes to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab, and the king of the children of Ammon, and to the king of Tyre, and to the king of Sidon, by the hands of the messengers who have come to Jerusalem to meet Zedekiah the king of Judah. 
4 And you will give them my orders for their masters by saying, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: You will say the following things to your masters. 
5 I have made the earth, and also the man and the beasts that are on earth. I have done it by my great power and by my outstretched arm, and I give the authority on earth to whom I want to give it. 
6 And now, I give all these lands into the hands of my servant Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon. And I also give him the beasts of the fields, to serve him. 
7 And all the nations will serve him, and his son, and to the son of his son, until the coming of the time of submission of his own land, when many nations and great kings will subdue him. 
8 And if a nation or a kingdom does not serve Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, if they do not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, then I will punish that nation by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence, says Yahweh, until I destroyed them by his hand. 
9 Therefore do not listen to your prophets, nor to your soothsayers, nor to your dreamers, nor to your necromancers, nor to your sorcerers, all those who will tell you: You will not serve the king of Babylon. 
10 For it is a lie that they prophesy to you. And if you want to listen to them then you will be sent far from your land, to a place where I will lead you and make you perish. 
11 And concerning the nation that will put their necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon to serve him, I will let that same nation in their own land, says Yahweh. And they will cultivates their own land, and will dwell there. 
12 And I Jeremiah, I also spoke to Zedekiah king of Judah according to the same words by saying: Put your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and you will live. 
13 Why should you want to die, you and your people, by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence, as Yahweh has declared it concerning any nation that will not want to serve the king of Babylon. 
14 Therefore do not listen to the words of the prophets who speak to you by saying, 'You will not serve the king of Babylon'. For it is the lie that they prophesy to you. 
15 For I have not sent them, says Yahweh, and nevertheless they prophesy the lie in my name. And if you want to listen to them then I will lead you out of your land and make you perish, you and the prophets who prophesy to you. 
16 I also spoke to the priests and to all this people by saying, Thus says Yahweh: Do not listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you by saying, 'Behold the utensils of the house of Yahweh will soon be brought back from Babylon'. For it is the lie that they prophesy to you. 
17 Do not listen to those prophets. Serve the king of Babylon, and you will live. Why should this city become a desolation. 
18 And if they are truly prophets [and have simply temporarily lost their way], if the word of Yahweh is with them, then let them entreat Yahweh the God of armies so that the utensils that remain in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem, will not be taken away to Babylon. 
19 For I announce now something that they do not know: Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the utensils that remain in this city. 
20 Those things that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has not taken when he has carried away captives from Jerusalem to Babylon, when he took Jeconiah [also called Jehoiachin] the son of Jehoiakim and king of Judah, with all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem. 
21 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, concerning the utensils that remain in the house of Yahweh, and in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem.
22 They will be carried to Babylon, and they will stay there until the day when I come for them, says Yahweh. Then I will bring them back, and restore them to this place.
