1 Zedekiah was twenty one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh [the holy spirit of Elohim], according to all that Jehoiakim had done. 
3 Surely it was because of the anger of Yahweh against Jerusalem and Judah that all these things happened [that is to say, that is why they were offending the holy spirit of Elohim], until he had thrown them out of his presence. Therefore Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 
4 And in the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem. And they encamped in front of the city, and they built forts all around.
5 And the city was besieged until the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.
6 And on the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was sore in the city so that there was no food for the people of the land.
7 Then the army of Nebuchadnezzar entered the city [at night]. And all the soldiers of Jerusalem fled at night and went out of the city by the way of the gate that was between the two walls that was near the king's garden. The Chaldeans were positioned in different places all around the city, but the king and his men escaped by the way of the wilderness.
8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him.
9 Then they took the king and carried him to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he judged him there. 
10 The king of Babylon killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. He also killed all the princes [leaders] of Judah at Riblah. 
11 Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah. And the king of Babylon bonded Zedekiah in chains, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prison until the day of his death.
12 Then Nebuzaradan the servant of the king of Babylon who was the chief of the guard entered Jerusalem. It was on the tenth [seventh] day of the fifth month, which was in the nineteenth year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
13 And Nebuzaradan burned the temple of Yahweh, and the king's house, and all the [great] houses of Jerusalem. He burned all the great houses with fire.
14 Then the whole army of the Chaldeans who was with the chief of the guard demolished the walls of Jerusalem all around.
15 And Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard carried away captive some of the poor of the people who were in the city, those of the people who remained in the city and those who had surrendered to the king of Babylon, the remnant of the multitude.
16 But Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard left some of the poor of the land to take care of all that grew in the fields.
17 And concerning the pillars of brass that were in the temple of Yahweh, and the bases, and the brazen sea that was in the temple of Yahweh, the Chaldeans broke them and carried all the brass to Babylon.
18 And they took away the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and all the utensils of brass that were used in the temple.
19 So the chief of the guard took away the cups, and the braziers, and the basins, and the pots, and the candlesticks, and the spoons, and the bowls, and all that was of gold, and all that was of silver.
20 And the two pillars, and the sea, and the twelve bulls of brass that were under the sea to serve as base, those things that Solomon had made for the temple of Yahweh. The brass from all these things was too heavy to be weighed. 
21 And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a cord of twelve cubits encircled it. It was hollow, and its thickness was four fingers. 
22 And there was a capital of brass at its top, and the height of the capital was five cubits, with the network and pomegranates on the capital all around, all of brass. And it was the same for the second pillar, with the pomegranates. 
23 There were ninety six pomegranates on a side of the pillar, and all the pomegranates on the network were one hundred all around [for each of the two rows of each pillar].
24 And the chief of the guard took Seraiah the high priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door of the temple.
25 And in the city he took an eunuch who had the supervision of the men of war, and five men of the king’s advisors who were found in the city, and the secretary of the captain of the army who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city.
26 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
27 And the king of Babylon smote them and killed them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive from their land. 
28 This is how many people Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive. In the seventh year of his reign, three thousand and twenty three Jews [heads of families] were taken from Judah.
29 And in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar, he carried away from Jerusalem eight hundred and thirty two persons [heads of families]. 
30 And in the twenty third year of Nebuchadrezzar, Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard carried away captive among the Jews seven hundred and forty five persons [heads of families]. So all the persons [heads of families] were four thousand and six hundred.
31 And in the thirty seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, on the twenty fifth [seventh] day of the twelfth month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon was in the first year of his reign. And on that day Evil-merodach lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah by bringing him out of prison. 
32 And Evil-merodach spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon [Evil-merodach gave him precedence]. 
33 And Evil-merodach changed the prison garments of Jehoiachin, and from that time Jehoiachin continually ate at the table of the king all the days of his life.
34 And his allowance was a continual allowance given him by the king of Babylon, every day an allowance, all the days of his life until the day of his death.
