1 Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah [also called Jehoiachin] the son of Jehoiakim. Zedekiah has been made king in the land of Judah by Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. 
2 But neither he nor his servants, nor the people of the land, listened to the words Yahweh that he spoke by the prophet Jeremiah. 
3 And Zedekiah the king sent Juhucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest who was the son of Maaseiah, to the prophet Jeremiah by saying: Pray now to Yahweh our God for us. 
4 Now Jeremiah was free to go where he wanted at that time. For they had not yet put him in prison. 
5 And the army of Pharaoh came out of Egypt at that time [and they were coming towards Jerusalem]. And the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard it, and they departed from Jerusalem. 
6 Then the word of Yahweh came to the prophet Jeremiah in the following words. 
7 Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, You will say the following thing to the king of Judah who sent you to me to inquire of me: Behold the army of Pharaoh was coming to help you, but now they are returning to Egypt into their own land. 
8 And the Chaldeans will come again, and fight against this city, and capture it, and burn it with fire. 
9 Thus says Yahweh: Do not deceive yourselves by saying, 'The Chaldeans will surely depart from us'. For they will not depart. 
10 Even if you were to defeat the entire army of the Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and if only wounded men remained among them, they would rise up each one in his tent and burn this city with fire. 
11 Now at the time when the Chaldean army had departed from Jerusalem because of Pharaoh's army. 
12 At that time Jeremiah wanted to leave Jerusalem in order to go into the land of Benjamin and escape from among the people. 
13 And when he came at the gate of Benjamin, there was a captain whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah. And he seized Jeremiah the prophet by saying: Are you not running away to join our enemies the Chaldeans. 
14 Then Jeremiah replied, 'That is false. I am not going to the Chaldeans'. But Irijah did not listen to Jeremiah. So Irijah took Jeremiah and brought him before the princes [officials]. 
15 And the officials were angry with Jeremiah. And they had him beaten and imprisoned in the house of Jonathan the scribe. For they had made this house a prison. 
16 So Jeremiah went into a dungeon of the prison, and he remained there for many days. 
17 Then Zedekiah the king sent to take Jeremiah from there, and the king questioned Jeremiah privately in his house. And the king said, 'Is there any word from Yahweh'. And Jeremiah answered, 'Yes'. And Jeremiah added, 'You will be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon'. 
18 And Jeremiah said to king Zedekiah: What have I done against you, or against your servants, or against this people. Why am I put in a prison. 
19 And where are your prophets who prophesied to you by saying, 'The king of Babylon will not come against you nor against this land'. 
20 Now therefore, I beseech you to accept my supplications that I make before you, O my lord the king. Do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there. 
21 Then King Zedekiah gave orders, and they put Jeremiah in the courtyard of the guards, and gave him every day a loaf of bread from the bakers' street, until there was no more bread in the city. So Jeremiah remained in the courtyard of the guards.
