1 Oh if my head were full of water and my eyes were a fountain of tears, then I would have wept day and night for those who will be killed in the midst of the daughter of my people. [I Jeremiah.] 
2 Oh if I had a traveler hut in the wilderness, I would have left my people and would have gone far away from them. For they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.
3 Their tongues are like bows that are stretched out to shoot arrows of falsehood. It is not by the truth that they are becoming powerful in the land, for they move from one wickedness to another wickedness. They do not know me, says Yahweh. 
4 Take precautions when interacting with your friends, and do not trust in any brother. For every brother seeks to deceive, and every friend spreads slanders. 
5 Each one seeks to deceive his neighbor, they do not tell the truth [since they have maleficent intentions when they express themselves]. They train their tongues to speak falsely, they watch each other in order to plan evil. 
6 Your dwelling is built through the use of deception. It is by falseness that they refuse to know me, says Yahweh. 
7 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Behold I will melt them and I will refine them. For how should I act toward the daughter of my people. 
8 Their tongue is a deadly arrow, They only speak deceitfully. Everyone speaks peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his heart he set ambushes for him. 
9 Should I not punish them for these things, says Yahweh. Should I not avenge my soul from such a nation. 
10 And I Jeremiah, I want to weep and to wail for the mountains, I want to lament for the empty fields. For they are burned [that is to say, they will be burned]. No animal passes there, and the voice of the cattle can no longer be heard. The birds of the sky and the beasts have fled, the have disappeared. 
11 I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, a hideout of jackals, says Yahweh. And I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitants. 
12 Is there a man who is wise enough to understand these things. Is there someone who has been taught by Yahweh. Can anyone explain the message. Why will the land be ruined. Why will it be made like a wilderness where no one goes. 
13 And Yahweh says: It is because they have forsaken my law that I had set before them, and have not obeyed my voice [whenever I have wanted to put them back in the way]. They have not wanted to listen to my voice. 
14 For they have walked in accordance with the stubbornness of their own hearts, and they have gone after the Baals as their fathers taught them. 
15 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Behold I will feed this people with wormwood, and I will make them drink poisoned waters. 
16 And I will disperse them among nations that they have known, neither they nor their fathers, and I will send the sword behind them until I have exterminated them. 
17 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies: Consider these things and call for the mourners, the skilful women who shout during funerals. Bring them closer. 
18 Let them make haste, and let them say a lamentation for us. Let tears fall from our eyes, let waters gush out of our eyelids. 
19 For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, and they say: We are destroyed, we are covered with shame. We must leave our land, and our houses have been destroyed. 
20 Listen to the word of Yahweh, O you the women. Let your ear receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters how to wail. Let every one teach her neighbor to lament. 
21 For death has come up through our windows, and it has entered our palaces. Death has come for our children who play in the streets, and for the young men who meet in the public places. 
22 Tell them this, you Jeremiah: Thus says Yahweh, the corpses of men will lie on the ground like manure on the fields, like grains that fall behind the harvester and that no one gather.
23 Thus speaks Yahweh: Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, and let not the strong man glory in his strength, and let not the rich man glory in his riches. 
24 For the one who glories must glory in the fact that he has received the understanding that is transmitted by the knowledge of my person. For I am Yahweh who performs judgment, and justice, and mercy, on the whole earth. And it is in these things that I take pleasure, says Yahweh. 
25 Behold the days are coming, says Yahweh, when I will punish all those who are uncircumcised of heart regardless of their different kind of circumcisions. 
26 Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all those who shave the corners of their beards [to have fancy appearances], and those who dwell in the wildernesses [for the sole purpose of a complete isolation]. For all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.
