1 In the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
2 Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you concerning Israel and concerning Judah, and concerning all the nations, from the day that I spoke to you in the days of Josiah until this day. 
3 Perhaps the house of Judah will turn away every one from his evil ways when they hear all the evil that I intend to do to them. And thus I will forgive their iniquity and their sin. 
4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote down in a scroll, under the dictation of Jeremiah, all the words of Yahweh that he had spoken to Jeremiah. 
5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch by saying: I am confined, and I cannot go to the house [temple] of Yahweh. [Jeremiah's movements were therefore limited at that time, for a reason that has not been specified.] 
6 Therefore you will go and read the words of Yahweh that are in the scroll that you have written under my dictation. You will read it in the ears of the people in the house [temple] of Yahweh, on the day of fasting. You will read them in the ears of all Judah who have come from their cities. 
7 Perhaps they will pray before Yahweh, and will turn away every one from his evil ways, when they hear the great anger and the fury that Yahweh has declared against this people. 
8 So Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, and stood in the house [temple] of Yahweh to read the words of Yahweh that were in the book. 
9 In the fifth year of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, they proclaimed a fasting before Yahweh for all the people who dwelt in Jerusalem and for all the people who had come to Jerusalem from the cities of Judah. 
10 And Baruch read the book that contained the words of Jeremiah in the temple of Yahweh, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entrance of the new gate of the temple of Yahweh, in the ears of all the people. 
11 And Micaiah the son of Gemariah the son of Shaphan heard all the words of Yahweh that were in the book. 
12 And he went down to the house of the king, into the chamber of the scribe. And lo, all the princes [royal officials] were sitting there: Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the other royal officials.
13 Then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch was reading the book in the ears of the people. 
14 Then all the officials sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi. They sent him to say to Baruch, 'Take in your hand the scroll in which you have read in the ears of the people, and come'. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them. 
15 And they said to Baruch, 'Sit down now, and read it in our ears'. And Baruch read it in their ears. 
16 And when they had heard all the words, they looked at one another in fear and said to Baruch: We will announce all these words to the king. 
17 And they questioned Baruch again by saying: Tell us how you wrote all these words. Have all these words been dictated by Jeremiah. 
18 Baruch answered them: Jeremiah was declaring all these words to me with his mouth, and I was writing them with ink in the book. 
19 Then the officials said to Baruch: Go and hide yourself, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are. 
20 And the officials placed the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and went to the king in the courtyard. And they reported all the words in the ears of the king. 
21 Then the king sent Jehudi to fetch the scroll. And Jehudi took it in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and came to read it in the ears of the king and in the ears of all the princes [officials] who were with the king. 
22 Now the king was sitting in the winter house. It was the ninth month, and there was a fire burning on the hearth before him. 
23 And when Jehudi had read three or four columns from the scroll, the king cut the scroll with a penknife and threw it into the fire that was on the hearth. And the scroll burned there until it was completely consumed. 
24 So they did not tear their garments and they were not afraid, neither the king nor any of his servants who heard all these words. 
25 Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah begged the king not to burn the scroll, but the king did not want to listen to them. 
26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel a son of the king, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to seize Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet. But Yahweh hid them [that is to say, he prevented them from being found]. 
27 Then the following word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, after the king had burned the scroll containing the words that Baruch had written under the dictation of Jeremiah. 
28 Take another scroll, and write on it all the words that were in the first scroll which has been burned by Jehoiakim king of Judah. 
29 And you will say to Jehoiakim king of Judah, Thus says Yahweh: You have burned the scroll by saying, 'Why have you written there  the following words: The king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and will cause both man and beast to perish from it'. 
30 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He will have no one to sit on the throne of David [and to do a useful work there]. And his dead body will be exposed to heat during the day and to frost during the night. 
31 And I will punish Jehoiakim, and his children, and his servants, for their iniquity. I will bring on them, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and on the men of Judah, all the evil that I have spoken against them and which they have not wanted to listen. 
32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah. And Baruch wrote on it, under the dictation of Jeremiah, all the words of the book that Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire. And many other similar words were added.
