1 The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
2 Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will make you hear my words. 
3 Then I went down to the potter's house, and behold, he was working with clay at the wheel. 
4 And the potter noticed an anomaly on the vessel of clay that he was making with his hand, and he used the same clay to make another vessel which he shaped as it seemed good to him to make it. 
5 Then the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
6 Thus speak Yahweh: Can I not act toward you as this potter acts toward the clay, O house of Israel. Behold you are in my hand like the clay in the hand of the potter, O house of Israel. 
7 It may happen that I suddenly speak against a nation or against a kingdom, to uproot it, and to pull it down, and to destroy it. 
8 And if that nation against which I have spoken turns away from its wickedness, then I will repent of the evil that I have planned to do to them. 
9 Or it may happen that I suddenly speak of a nation or a kingdom, to build it and to establish it. 
10 And if I see that this nation turns from the right way to do what is evil in my sight, and that they do not obey my voice, then I will repent of the good that I have planned to do to them. 
11 Now therefore speak to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and say: Thus says Yahweh, Behold I am preparing evil against you, I am planning a disaster against you. Turn away now from your evil ways, each of you. Improve your ways and your deeds. 
12 But they will say: You are wasting your time. For we will surely walk according to our own imaginations, and each one will act according to the stubbornness of his wicked heart. 
13 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Ask now among the nations. Who has ever heard such things. Israel should have been a virgin daughter for me, but she has done disgusting things. 
14 Does the snow of Lebanon forsake the rock of the fields. Or do the fresh flowing waters that come from there dry up. 
15 Nevertheless my people have forgotten me and have burned incense to false gods. Their leaders have led them astray, for they have left the ancient paths in order to follow strange ways. 
16 Therefore their land will become a desolation and will continually be a subject of hissing. All those who will pass there will be astonished and will shake their heads because of what they will see. 
17 I will scatter them with an east wind in front of the enemy. I will turn my back on them so as not to look at them on the day of their destruction. 
18 Then the enemies of Jeremiah said: Come, and let us plan evil against Jeremiah. For there will always be priests to teach the law, and wise men to advise us, and prophets to give us the true word of God. Come, and let us destroy Jeremiah with our tongue. Let us not pay attention to any of his words. 
19 Listen to me, O Yahweh, and listen to the voice of those who contend with me. 
20 Should one do evil in order to reward a good deed. For they have dug a pit for my soul. Remember how I stood before you to speak for their good, in order to turn away your anger from them. 
21 Therefore now, deliver their children to the famine and cause them to perish by the sword of their enemies. Let their wives lose their children and husbands, and let their husbands be killed by diseases. Let their young men be killed by the sword in battle. 
22 Let cries be heard from their houses, when you suddenly bring an army against them. For they have dug a pit to take my life, they have hidden snares for my feet. 
23 O Yahweh, you know all their plans to kill me. Do not forgive their iniquity, do not erase their sin from before you. Let them be overthrown before you, punish them in your anger.
