1 Thus says Yahweh to me: Go and buy an earthen bottle from a potter, and take with you some of the elders of the people and some of the elders of the priests. 
2 And you will go to the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is near the entrance of the gate Harsith, and you will proclaim there the words that I will tell you. 
3 You will say: Hear the word of Yahweh, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, Behold I will bring such a disaster on this place that the ears of anyone who will hear of it will tingle. 
4 Because they have forsaken me and desecrated this place. They have burned incense there to other gods that they had not known, neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah. And they have filled this place with the blood of innocents. 
5 And they have built high places for Baal, to burn their children in the fire for burnt offerings to Baal. It is something that I had not commanded and about which I had not spoken. Such a thing never even entered my mind.
6 Therefore behold, says Yahweh, the days are coming when it will no longer be called Topheth or the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter. 
7 And I will destroy the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this place. And I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies and by the hand of those who seek their lives. And I will give their carcasses to be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth.
8 And I will cause this city to become a desolation and a subject of hissing. All those who will pass there will be astonished and will hiss because of all its destruction. 
9 And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters, and they will each eat the flesh of his friend, in the siege and in the distress to which their enemies and those who seek their lives will reduce them. 
10 And when you will have told them these things, then you will break the bottle in the sight of the men who have come with you. 
11 And you will say to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: It is in this way that I will break this people and this city, as one breaks a potter's vessel which cannot be restored [except by a potter]. And they will bury the victims in Topheth until there be no place to bury them. 
12 I will do thus to this place, says Yahweh, and to its inhabitants, and I will make this city like Topheth. 
13 The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah will be defiled like the place of Topheth, because of all the houses on whose roofs they have burned incense to honor all the armies of the heaven, and because of drink offerings that they have poured out there to other gods. 
14 Then Jeremiah returned from Topheth, where Yahweh had sent him to prophesy. And he stood in the courtyard of the house of Yahweh, and said the following thing to all the people. 
15 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will bring on this city and on all its towns all the evil that I have spoken against it. For they have hardened their necks with the aim of not listening to my words.
