1 The following word came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews who dwelt in the land of Egypt, those who dwelt at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes, and at Noph, and in the land of Pathros. 
2 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: You have seen all the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem and on all the cities of Judah. Behold this day they are a desolation, and no man dwells there.
3 And this has happened because of the wickedness with which the people have acted to provoke me to anger. They went to burn incense wherever it pleased them, and to serve other gods whom they had not known, neither you nor your fathers. 
4 Nevertheless I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, I have arisen early [every day] to send them by saying: Do not commit these abominations that I hate. 
5 But they have not wanted to pay attention and they have not obeyed. They have not turned away from their wickedness, and they have not stopped to burn incense to other gods. 
6 Therefore my anger and my fury have been poured out on the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem, which are now ruins and desolations as it appears this day. 
7 Now therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil against your own souls. For your deeds will cause me to destroy men, and women, and children, and infants, and leave no survivors. 
8 Why do you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, by burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt where you have come to dwell. Your deeds will cause your destruction, and you will become a curse and a subject of reproach among all the nations of the earth. 
9 Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives, which they have committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem [and because of which all these disasters happened]. 
10 They have not humbled themselves to this day, they have not been afraid of me. They have not walked in my law and my statutes, which I have set before you and before your fathers. 
11 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will set my face against you for evil, to destroy all the families of Judah [who are here]. 
12 I will take the remnant who has come from Judah, those who have turned their faces to come in the land of Egypt to sojourn here [despite the fact that I ordered them not to do so], and they will all be consumed. They will fall in the land of Egypt. They will be consumed by the sword and by the famine, from the least of them to the greatest of them. They will perish by the sword and by the famine, and they will be an execration, a subject of astonishment and of reproach, and a curse. 
13 For I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
14 None of the remnant of Judah, those who have come into the land of Egypt to sojourn here, will escape or remain to return into the land of Judah where they will have the desire to return to dwell there. For they will not return there, except a few people who will escape [among the descendants of those who willfully disobeyed the word that I had sent to them]. 
15 Then all the men who knew that their wives usually burned incense to other gods, and all the women who were there, a great multitude, all the people who dwelt in Pathros in the land of Egypt, they said the following thing to Jeremiah. 
16 Concerning the word that you have spoken to us in the name of Yahweh, we will not obey you. 
17 For we will do as our own mouth has spoken, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, both we and our fathers, and our kings, and our princes [leaders], in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had enough to eat, and were well, and saw no evil. 
18 And when we have stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, at that time we have lacked everything and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine. 
19 And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did our husbands not know that we were making cakes to worship her and that we were pouring out drink offerings to her. [Say the women.] 
20 Then Jeremiah said the following thing to all the people, to the men and to the women, to all those who had given him that answer. 
21 Has not Yahweh remembered the incense that you have burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, both you and your fathers, and your kings, and your princes [leaders], and the people of the land. And he has reacted to that. 
22 For Yahweh could no longer refrain from punishing you because of the wickedness of your imagination, because of the abominations that you had committed. Therefore your land has become a desolation, and a curse, and a subject of astonishment, without inhabitant, as it appears this day. 
23 For you had burned incense [to other gods] and sinned against Yahweh, and had not obeyed the voice of Yahweh [when he sent his prophets to warn you]. You had not walked in his law, and in his statutes, and in his testimonies. Therefore this disaster has come on you, as it appears this day. 
24 And Jeremiah said to all the people and to all the women: Hear the word of Yahweh, you all the people of Judah who are in the land of Egypt. 
25 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: You and your wives have spoken with your mouths and have performed with your hands the following declaration, 'We will fulfill our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her'. And now you have confirmed your vow, and you have promised to continue to perform this vow. 
26 Therefore hear the word of Yahweh, you all the people of Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt. Behold I swear by my great name, says Yahweh, that my name will no longer be invoked by the mouth of any of these persons who are from Judah and who dwell in all the land of Egypt. They will no longer say: Yahweh is alive. 
27 Behold I will watch over them for evil and not for good. And all the men [and women] of Judah who are in the land of Egypt [and who are guilty of these things] will be consumed by the sword and by the famine, until they are annihilated. 
28 Yet there will be a few of them who will escape the sword [among those who are not guilty of all these things, either because they are too young or because they are not aware of these words, or among their descendants], and they will return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah. And all the remnant of Judah who have come to the land of Egypt to dwell there [by willfully disobeying my word] will know whether my word or theirs will stand. 
29 And the following thing will be a sign to you, says Yahweh, that I will punish you in this place. And you will know that my words will surely stand against you to harm you. 
30 Thus says Yahweh: Behold I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt [and his people] into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of those who seek his life, as I have given Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon his enemy who sought his life.
