1 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah a second time in the following words, while he was still shut up in the courtyard of the guards. 
2 Thus says Yahweh who does these things, Yahweh who plans them and performs them. Yahweh is his name. 
3 Call to me, and I will answer you. I will tell you great things, hidden things that you do not know. 
4 For thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are thrown down by the mounts, and by the sword.
5 They come to fight against the Chaldeans, but it is to fill themselves with the corpses of men whom I will kill in my anger and in my fury. For I have hidden my face from this city because of all their wickedness. 
6 Behold I will give it health and healing. For I will cure them, and I will reveal to them the abundance of peace and truth. 
7 I will bring back the captives of Judah and the captives of Israel, and I will build them as at the beginning. 
8 I will cleanse them from all their iniquity that they have committed against me. I will forgive them all their iniquities by which they have sinned against me, and by which they have rebelled against me. 
9 And this city will be to me a name, a source of joy and a praise, a glory before all the nations of the earth who will hear all the good that I will do to my people there. The nations will be amazed and will fear because of all the prosperity and goodness that I will grant to my people there. 
10 Thus says Yahweh, concerning this place of which you say: It will be desolate, without man and without beast. The cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem will be desolate without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast. 
11 People will again hear in this place the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who will say, 'Praise Yahweh the God of armies. For Yahweh is good, because his mercy endures forever'. And the voice of those offering sacrifices of praise in the house of Yahweh. For I will bring back the captives of the land as at the beginning, says Yahweh. 
12 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: In this place that will be desolate, without man and without beast, and in all its cities, there will again be dwellings for shepherds to rest their flocks. 
13 In the cities of the hill-country, and in the cities of the plain, and in the cities of the south, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the sheep will again pass under the hand of the one who counts them, says Yahweh.
