1 The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
2 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of Israel: Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you. 
3 For lo, says Yahweh, the days come when I will bring back the captives of my people Israel and Judah, says Yahweh. For I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they will possess it. 
4 And Yahweh said the following words concerning Israel and concerning Judah. 
5 For thus speaks Yahweh: We heard a terrible voice. There is fear and not peace. 
6 Do research to find out if there has ever been a male somewhere who became pregnant. Why do I see every man with his hands on his waist, like a woman about to give birth and already feeling the pain. And all their faces have become pale. 
7 Alas, for this day is so great that there no other like it. It is the time of trouble for Jacob, but he will be delivered from it. 
8 In that day [namely in those days], says Yahweh the God of armies, I will break his yoke from your neck and I will break your bonds, and you will no longer serve strangers. 
9 For they will serve Yahweh their God, and David their king whom I will bring forth among them. 
10 Therefore fear not, O my servant Jacob, says Yahweh. Do not be dismayed, O Israel. For lo, I will deliver you out of the distant lands, I will deliver your seed out of the land of their captivity. And Jacob will return, and will enjoy rest and tranquility, and there will be no one to disturb him. 
11 For I am with you, says Yahweh, to save you. I will utterly destroy [the legacies of the social organizations of] all the nations where I have scattered you, but I will not destroy you. I will rebuke you fairly, because I cannot let you go unpunished. 
12 For thus says Yahweh: Your hurt is incurable, and your wound is painful. 
13 No one defends your cause, to bandage your wounds. You have no remedies to heal. 
14 All your lovers have forgotten you, they do not seek you. For I have stricken you like an enemy strikes. I have punished you with violence because of the multitude of your iniquities, because your sins were many. 
15 Why are you surprised by the severity of your punishment. I have done these things against you because of the multitude of your iniquities, because your sins were many. 
16 .
17 But I will restore your health, I will heal you of your wounds, says Yahweh, because they have called you an outcast by saying: This is Zion who does not interest anyone. 
18 Thus speaks Yahweh: Behold I will bring back the captives of the tents of Jacob, for I will have compassion on his dwelling places. The city will be rebuilt on its own heap, the palace will be restored as it was. 
19 And they will sing songs of praise there, and there will be the sound of laughter. I will multiply them, and they will not decrease. I will honor them, and they will not be despised. 
20 Their children will be like in the past, and their congregation will be established before me. And I will punish all those who will want to oppress them. 
21 Their leader will be one of their own, their ruler will come from among them. I will cause him to come near, I will let him approach me. For who can purify his heart enough to be able to approach so close to me.  
22 You will be my people, and I will be your God. 
23 And behold now, the tempest of the fury of Yahweh has gone forth, a terrifying tempest. It rushes on the head of the wicked. 
24 The fierce anger of Yahweh will not return, until he has executed and finished the intents of his heart. You will understand it in the latter days.
