1 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
2 You will not take a wife, and you will have neither sons nor daughters in this place. 
3 For thus says Yahweh concerning the sons and concerning the daughters who are born in this place, and concerning their mothers who bear them, and concerning their fathers who beget them in this land. 
4 They will die by a painful death. They will not be lamented, and they will not be buried, and they will be as dung on the face of the earth. They will perish by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies will be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth. 
5 For thus says Yahweh: Do not enter a house of mourning, and do not go to the surroundings to weep or groan with them. For I have taken away my peace from this people, says Yahweh, even my mercy and my compassion. 
6 Both great and small will die in this land, and they will not be buried. No one will mourn for them, nor make a cut on his body, nor shave his head to show his sorrow for them. 
7 They will not seek to comfort each other about those who have died. No one will comfort those whose mother or father has died. 
8 And now, Jeremiah, do not go to a house where there is a party to sit with them to eat or drink. 
9 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will cause to cease from this place, during your days and before your eyes, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. 
10 And when you tell this people all these things, they will say to you: Why has Yahweh declared all this great evil against us. What is our iniquity. What sin have we committed against Yahweh our God. 
11 Then you will say to them: It is because your fathers have forsaken me, says Yahweh, and have gone after other gods to serve them and to worship them. They have forsaken me because they have not obeyed my law. 
12 And you have done more wickedly than your fathers. For behold, each of you follows the stubbornness of his evil heart, in order not to listen to me. 
13 Therefore I will carry you out of this land and lead you to a land that you have not known, neither you nor your fathers. And there you will serve other gods day and night. For I will not hold back my anger against you. 
14 Therefore behold, says Yahweh, the days are coming when they will no longer say: Yahweh is alive, he who brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
15 But they will say, 'Yahweh is alive, he who brought the children of Israel out of the land of the north and out of all the countries where he had scattered them'. For I will bring them again into their land that I gave to their fathers. 
16 Behold I will send a multitude of fishermen in this land, says Yahweh, and they will come to fish the people of Judah. And afterward I will send a multitude of hunters, and they will hunt the people of Judah on every mountain and on every hill, and in the clefts of the rocks. 
17 For my eyes are attentive to all their ways. They are not hidden from my face, and their iniquity is not hidden from my sight. 
18 And I will first repay them double for their iniquity and their sin, because they have defiled my land. They have filled my inheritance with all the abominable objects that they have worshiped, and all the detestable behavior that they had. 
19 O Yahweh. You are my strength and my help, my refuge in the day of affliction. The nations will come to you from the ends of the earth, and they will say: Surely our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, worthless things in which there is no real profit. [Says Jeremiah.]
20 Should a man make for himself gods who are not gods. [Says Yahweh.] 
21 Therefore behold, I will cause them to know it this time. I will cause them to know my hand and my power, and they will know that my name is Yahweh.
