1 Walk backwards and forwards throughout the streets of Jerusalem, in order to observe now and inquire in all open places, to know if there is anywhere a person who acts uprightly and searches for the truth. If you find such a person then I will forgive Jerusalem. 
2 For they speak by saying, 'Yahweh is alive', but surely they swear falsely. 
3 Then I said, I Jeremiah: O Yahweh, do not your eyes see the truth. You have stricken them, but they have not grieved. You have consumed them, but they have refused to receive correction. They have made their faces harder than a rock, they have refused to return. 
4 But I said to myself, Surely it is only the poor who are so foolish. They do not know the way of Yahweh, the law of their God. 
5 I will go to the great men, and I will speak to them. For they should know the way of Yahweh, the law of their God. But I perceived that they too have completely broken the yoke, and have burst the bonds. 
6 Therefore a lion of the forest will kill them, and a wolf of the wilderness will destroy them. A leopard will watch over their cities, and anyone who will get out of there will be torn in pieces. For their transgressions are numerous, and their rebellions have increased. 
7 Why would I forgive you, you the land of Judah, says Yahweh. Your children have abandoned me, and they swear in their hearts by false gods. Although I had fed them to their fill, they have committed adultery and have gathered themselves together in troops to the houses of prostitutes. 
8 Like well-fed horses running here and there, every one neighs after his neighbor's wife. 
9 Should I not punish them for these things, says Yahweh. Should I not avenge my soul from such a nation.
10 Go up on their walls, and destroy. Do not destroy entirely, but take away the battlements. For they do not belong to Yahweh. 
11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been unfaithful to me, says Yahweh. 
12 They have denied Yahweh and have said: It is not he [for he is powerless]. Misfortune will not come to us, we will see neither the sword nor famine. 
13 And the prophets are only wind, for no one speaks in them. It will be done to them thus. 
14 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Because they speak with such words, behold my words that I put in your mouth will be like fire, you Jeremiah, and this people will be like wood, and they will be devoured. 
15 And lo, I will bring a nation from afar against you, O house of Israel, says Yahweh. It is a strong nation, it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know and whose words you will not understand. 
16 Their quiver is like an open sepulcher, they are all mighty men. 
17 And they will devour your harvest and your bread, and they will devour your sons and your daughters, and they will devour your flocks and thy herds, and they will devour your vineyards and your fig trees. They will destroy with the sword your fortified cities in which you trust. 
18 But I will not destroy you entirely in those days, says Yahweh. 
19 And when they will say, 'Why has Yahweh our God done all these things to us'. Then you will answer them with my following words: As you have abandoned me and have served strange gods in your land, so you will serve strangers in a land that is not yours. 
20 Declare this in the house of Jacob, publish it in Judah with the following words. 
21 Hear now this, O foolish people who has no heart. You have eyes but you do not see, you have ears but you do not hear. 
22 Should you not fear me, says Yahweh. Should you not tremble at my presence. I am the one who placed the sand to be the natural limit of the sea by a perpetual decree, it cannot pass it. Its waves are agitating, but they do not prevail. They roar, but they will not dwell beyond. 
23 But this people has an unfaithful and rebellious heart. They have rebelled and gone. 
24 They do not say in their hearts: Let us now fear Yahweh our God who gives the rain, both the former and the latter rains. He reserves us the weeks intended for the harvest. 
25 Your iniquities have turned away these things, your sins have deprived you of these good things. 
26 For there are found wicked persons among my people. They wait like he who lays snares. They make pits to catch men. 
27 Their houses are filled with deceits like a cage is filled with birds. This is how they have become great and rich. 
28 They are fat and they shine. They excel in the deeds of wickedness. They do not plead the cause, the cause of the fatherless. They prosper, although they do not care about the rights of the powerless. 
29 Should I not punish them for these things, says Yahweh. Should I not avenge my soul from such a nation. 
30 A shocking and amazing thing is done in the land. 
31 There are prophets who prophesy with falsehood, and the priests do not perform their duties, and my people take pleasure in all this. What will you do in the end.
