1 Now here are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the residue of the elders who had been carried away captive, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon. 
2 So this letter was sent after the departure for captivity of Jeconiah [also called Jehoiachin], and of the queen mother, and of the eunuchs, and of the princes [leaders] of Judah and Jerusalem, and of the workemen, and of the craftsmen, all those who had been carried away from Jerusalem at that time. 
3 Jeremiah sent it by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, when Zedekiah the king of Judah [the successor of Jehoiachin] sent them to Babylon to meet Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon. The letter contained the following words. 
4 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of the armies, the God of Israel, to all the captives whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem to Babylon. 
5 Build houses to dwell in them, and plant gardens to eat their fruits. 
6 Take women in marriage to beget sons and daughters. Take also women for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage to men, so that they may have sons and daughters. Multiply where you are, and do not decrease. 
7 And seek the welfare of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to Yahweh for it. For you will have peace through their peace. 
8 For thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Do not be deceived by your prophets who are among you, or by your dreamers, and do not let your own dreams influence you. 
9 For it is with falsity that they tell you prophecies in my name. I have not sent them, says Yahweh. 
10 For thus says Yahweh: After the accomplishment of seventy years for Babylon, I will remember you. I will perform my good word that I have announced to you, by causing you to return to this place [namely the place from which Jeremiah has sent you this letter]. 
11 For I know the plans that I have formed for you, says Yahweh. I have planned peace and not evil, to give you hope in your latter end. 
12 You will invoke me, and you will go and pray to me, and I will hear you. 
13 You will seek me and find me, when you seek me with all your heart. 
14 And I will let myself be found by you, says Yahweh, and I will bring you back from your captivity. I will gather you from all the nations and from all the places where I have led you, says Yahweh, and I will bring you back to the place from which I have caused you to be carried away captive. 
15 For you have said: Yahweh has caused some of us to become prophets while we are in Babylon. [And you think in yourself: Perhaps it is not essential to seek to practice the totality of the commandments of Moses which specify particular rituals that priests who are the descendants of Aaron must practice a house of God which is designed to be their place of service.] 
16 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning the king who is sitting on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city of Jerusalem, your brothers who have not gone with you into captivity. 
17 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Behold I will send among them the sword, and the famine, and the pestilence, and I will make them like vile figs that cannot be eaten because of their bad quality. 
18 And I will pursue them with the sword, and with the famine, and with the pestilence. I will make them an object of disgust for all the kingdoms of the earth, and a curse, and a subject of astonishment and of hissing, and an object of reproach among all the nations where I will drive them. 
19 For they have not obeyed my words that I have sent by my servants the prophets, says Yahweh. I have arisen early every day to send them but you have not wanted to pay attention, says Yahweh. 
20 Now therefore, take care to obey the words of Yahweh [that I send you by my servants the prophets], you all the captives whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon. [Says Yahweh.] 
21 And now, thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, these two men who are among you and who have made false prophecies in my name. Behold I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, and he will kill them before your eyes. 
22 And they will become an object of curse in the minds of all the captives of Judah who are in Babylon, and the following proverb will arise about them: May Yahweh make you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon has roasted in the fire. 
23 And this will happen because they have acted stupidly in Israel. For they have committed adultery with the wives of their neighbors, and they have spoken falsely in my name by saying things that I had not commanded them to say. I know that they have done these things, I am a witness, says Yahweh. 
24 And you will say the following thing to Shemaiah the Nehelamite. 
25 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: You have sent a letter in your own name to the priest Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, and to all the priests, and to all the people who are at Jerusalem, and you have written the following thing in that letter. 
26 Zephaniah, Yahweh has made you priest in the stead of Jehoiada the priest. Therefore you should have appointed officers in the house [temple] of Yahweh to identify every person who is mad and who claims to be a prophet, in order to put such a person in prison and in chains. 
27 Now therefore, why have you not rebuked Jeremiah who is from Anathoth and who prophesies among you. 
28 For Jeremiah had already sent us the following message after we have come to Babylon: The captivity will be long. Build houses to dwell in them, and plant gardens to eat their fruits. [Now Shemaiah can imagine in his heart that he can be right because the commandments of the law of Moses recommend the people to constantly seek to separate themselves from the persons who do not serve Yahweh, but Shemaiah especially seeks to draw attention to himself because it is easy for him to realize that he is not completely right because of the context in which these events have occurred.] 
29 Now Zephaniah the priest has read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the prophet. 
30 And the word of Yahweh has come to Jeremiah in the following words. 
31 Send the following message to all the captives who are in Babylon: Thus says Yahweh concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite. Shemaiah has prophesied by declaring the insincerity of the prophecies that Jeremiah has spoken in my name. I have not spoken to Shemaiah, and he has made you believe a lie. 
32 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Behold I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seed. I will destroy his personal legacy, he will have no portion in the good things that I will do for my people. For his words are a rebellion against [the spirit of] Yahweh. 
33 [Now despite the fact that he is an ordinary person, Shemaiah takes the initiative to reproach the priests of Yahweh, who are in service in the house of Yahweh, for not having extended their power beyond what is contained in the law written by Moses. And the law of Moses specifies that it is these priests in service in the house of Yahweh who must give the definitive decisions in all controversies that may arise among the population if the people has not established a king, and Zedekiah the last king of Judah is reigning in those days. And the law of Moses also specifies that one must listen to a prophets whose prophecies come true and who do not incite the people to disobey any of the commandments of that the law. And this house of Yahweh was built to replace the tabernacle that Moses had made build in the wilderness according to the commandments of Yahweh, and Moses did not indicate that the people could replace in future times the tabernacle whose plans and building materials were specified in the written law. And when Yahweh appeared to Solomon for the second time, he told him that in the event of great transgressions there will be the destruction of the new house that bears his name and also the departure of the people of Israel for a captivity. And king Solomon who built the new house for the name of Yahweh had explicitly specified in his prayer of dedication that it could happen, in accordance with the words of Yahweh that a prophet had announced to him while he was building the new house of Yahweh.]
