1 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
2 Stand at the gate of the house of Yahweh and proclaim the following word there: Hear the word of Yahweh, you all the men of Judah who enter by these gates to worship Yahweh. 
3 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Reform your ways and your doings, and I will let you dwell in this place. 
4 Do not deceive yourselves by assuming that you will be saved by saying: The temple of Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh, this is the temple of Yahweh. 
5 For if you thoroughly reform your ways and your deeds, if you practice justice toward each other. 
6 If you do not oppress the sojourner, or the fatherless, or the widow. If you do not shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do no go after other gods to your own destruction. 
7 Then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, forever and ever. 
8 For behold, now you are trusting in the words of lies which can give no real profit.
9 For your works are to steal, to kill, to commit adultery, to swear falsely, to burn incense to Baal, to follow other gods that you have not known. 
10 And while you are doing this, you come and stand before me in this house that is called by my name, and you say: We are now forgiven for all the abominations that we have committed.
11 Has it become in your eyes a den of thieves, this house that is called by my name. I see it myself, says Yahweh. 
12 Go now to the place that had been consecrated to me in Shiloh, where I had caused my name to dwell at the beginning, and see what I did to it because of the wickedness of my people Israel. 
13 And now, because you have done all these things, says Yahweh, because you have not listened to me despite the fact that I have arisen early [every day] and spoken to you, because I have called you and you did not answer. 
14 Therefore concerning the house that is called by my name, this house in which you trust and which is the place that I have given to you and to your fathers, I will treat it as I treated Shiloh. 
15 And I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brothers, the whole seed of Ephraim. 
16 As for you, Jeremiah, do not pray for this people. Do not lift up a cry or a plea for them. Do not intercede for them with me, for I will not listen to you. 
17 Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. 
18 The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, in order to make cakes for the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to other gods,in order to provoke me to anger. 
19 Am I the only one whom they are hurting, says Yahweh. Do they not hurt themselves, to their own shame. 
20 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold my anger and my fury will be poured out on this place, on man and on beast, on the trees of the field and on the fruit of the ground. It will burn and will not be quenched. 
21 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat their flesh.
22 For I had neither spoken to your fathers nor given them commandments concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices, in the day when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. 
23 But this is the command that I gave them: Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. Walk in all the ways that I have commanded you, so that you may be happy.
24 But they did not want to obey, and they did not consider. And they walked in their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their wicked hearts. They went backward and not forward. 
25 From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt until this day, I have sent to you all my servants the prophets. I have arisen early every day to send them. 
26 But they did not want to obey, and they did not consider. And they hardened their necks and did more evil than their fathers. 
27 And now you will tell them all these things, but they will not want to listen to you. You will cry out to them, but they will not answer you. 
28 Therefore you will say to them: This is the nation that does not want to listen to the voice of Yahweh their God, they do not want to receive instruction. Truth has perished, it is cut off from their mouth. 
29 Cut off your hair and cast it away, O Jeremiah, and lift up a lamentation on your lips. For Yahweh has rejected and forsaken the generation that has provoked his anger. 
30 For the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, says Yahweh. They have set their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to pollute it. 
31 They have built high places at Topheth in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire. It is something that I had not commanded them, such a thing never even entered my mind. 
32 Therefore behold, says Yahweh, the days are coming when it will no longer be called Topheth or the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter. And they will bury the victims in Topheth until there be no place to bury them. 
33 And the carcasses of this people will be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and there will be no one to frighten them. 
34 And I will cause to cease from the cities of Judah and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. For the land will become a desolation.
