1 O Israel. If you come back, if you come back to me, says Yahweh, if you remove your abominations from before me, then you will no longer be a wanderer. 
2 If you swear without deceit by saying, 'Yahweh is alive'. If you act in righteousness and with justice, then the nations will be blessed in him, and will glory in him [and you will be glad to have contributed to this]. 
3 For thus speaks Yahweh to the men of Judah and Jerusalem: Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns. 
4 Circumcise yourself for Yahweh by taking away the foreskins of your hearts, you the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Lest my anger come forth like a fire, and burn without there being anyone to extinguish it, because of the wickedness of your deeds. 
5 Announce in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem, and say, 'Blow the trumpet in the land'. Cry out and say, 'Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities'. 
6 Set up a banner in Zion and flee for your safety, do not stay. For I will bring evil from the north, and a great destruction. 
7 The lion comes up from his den, the destroyer of nations is on his way. He has gone forth from his place to ravage your land. Your cities will be ruined, there will be no more inhabitants. 
8 Therefore gird yourselves with sackcloths, lament and groan. For the fierce anger of Yahweh does not turn away from us. 
9 On that day the king and the leaders will lose their courage, says Yahweh. And the priests will be astonished, and the prophets will cogitate. 
10 Then I said, I Jeremiah: Oh Lord Yahweh, surely you have deceived this people of Judah and Jerusalem. For you have said, 'You will have peace [if you return to me]'. And yet the sword will reach to the soul. [Now Jeremiah speaks with sincerity, but he does not understand at that moment how Yahweh is not contradicting himself. Now Yahweh has already decided that there will be a destruction, but the spirit of Yahweh can always find a way to give a legacy to those who choose to change their behaviors since God can prolong his patience.]
11 At that time [says Yahweh], it will be said to this people of Judah and Jerusalem: A dry wind blows from the high places of the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, but not to winnow or to clean. 
12 It is an impetuous wind that comes from there because of me. Now I will pronounce their sentence. 
13 Behold the destroyer comes up like clouds, and his chariots are like a whirlwind. His horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us, because we are destroyed. 
14 O Jerusalem, wash the wickedness from your heart in order to be saved. How long will you keep your futile thoughts inside you. 
15 For a voice will declare it from Dan, and will proclaim disaster from mount Ephraim. 
16 Write this for the remembrance of the nations, and publish it in Jerusalem. The watchers come from a far country, and cry out against the cities of Judah. 
17 They surround Jerusalem like men guarding a field, because Jerusalem has rebelled against me, says Yahweh. 
18 This is the product of your ways and your deeds, this is the product of your wickedness. Admittedly this is bitter, it penetrates to your heart. 
19 And I Jeremiah, I said: My bowels, my bowels. I suffer inside my heart, my heart is disquieted in me and I cannot hold my peace. For you have heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet which is the alarm of war. 
20 Destruction on destruction is announced, for the whole land will be ravaged. My tents will be destroyed suddenly, and my curtains in a moment. 
21 How long will I see the banner, and hear the sound of the trumpet. 
22 And Yahweh said: For my people is foolish, they do not know me. They are foolish children, for they have no understanding. They are skillful in doing evil, but they do not know how to do good. 
23 I looked at the earth, and lo, it was formless and void. And I looked at the heavens, and they had no light. 
24 I looked at the mountains, and lo, they were trembling and all the hills were tottering. 
25 I looked, and lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the sky had departed. 
26 I looked, and lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all its cities were broken down before Yahweh, and by his fierce anger. 
27 For thus says Yahweh: The whole land will be desolate, but I will not completely destroy it. 
28 Because of this, the land will mourn and the heavens above will be darkened. For I have spoken it. I have purposed it, and I will not repent. I will not turn back from it. 
29 Every city will flee at the noise of the horsemen and the archers, they will go into the thickets and climb on the rocks. Every city is forsaken, and not a man remains there. 
30 And when you will be destroyed, what will you do. You clothe yourself with scarlet, and you will adorn yourself with ornaments of gold, and you paint your face. But it is in vain that you make yourself beautiful, for your lovers will despise you and they will seek your life. 
31 For I have heard a voice like that of a woman giving birth, an anguish like that of a woman giving birth to her first child. The voice of the daughter of Zion who groans and spreads out her hands by saying: Woe is me now, for my soul faints because of the murderers.
