1 You are righteous, O Yahweh, therefore I cannot argue with you. But I desire to speak to you about your judgments. Why does the way of the wicked prosper. Why do all the transgressors live peacefully. 
2 You have planted them, and they have taken root. They grow and bear fruit. You are near in their mouth, but far from their heart. 
3 And you know my heart, O Yahweh. You see me and you test my mind. Bring them out like sheep for slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter. 
4 How long will the land mourn, and the grass of every field wither. The beasts and the birds perish because of the wickedness of those who dwell there. And they say: Jeremiah will not live long enough to see what happens to us. 
5 And Yahweh said to Jeremiah: If you get exhausted when you race with men, then how can you compete with horses. If you trip and fall in a safe place, then what will you do in a dangerous place like near the river Jordan where thornbushes grow. 
6 For even your brothers of your father's house have betrayed you. They have even cry out against you. Do not trust them, even if they speak to you in a friendly way. 
7 I have forsaken my house, I have rejected my heritage. I have given the beloved of my soul, the people that I had chosen to bear my name, into the hands of his enemies. [It has already happened with the kingdom of Israel which no longer exists, and Manasseh who was king of Judah has also unleashed my fury.] 
8 The people of my heritage has turned against me like a wild lion of the forest. They have roared against me, therefore I have hated them. 
9 My heritage have become like a dying animal surrounded by vultures. These birds have come against my heritage from all sides and have said: Gather together, you all the beasts of the field, and come to devour something. 
10 Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard, they have trampled my field. They have made my pleasant field a wilderness, a desolation. 
11 They have made it a wilderness. It is desolate and it mourns before me. The whole land is desolate, and no one is left to care for it. 
12 Destroyers have come on all high places through the wilderness, for the sword of Yahweh devours the land from one end to the other. There is no peace for anyone. 
13 But before that happens, they will sow wheat, but they will reap thorns. They will toil without benefit. You will be ashamed of your fruit, because of the fierce anger of Yahweh.
14 Thus says Yahweh concerning all my wicked neighbors, those who have always lived in the land that I have given to my people Israel for an inheritance. Behold I will uproot them from their land, and I will uproot the house of Judah from among them. 
15 But after I have uprooted them, I will have compassion on them. And I will bring them back, each one to his inheritance, each one to his land. 
16 And if they learn the ways of my people, if they swear with my name by saying 'As Yahweh is alive', like they had taught my people to swear by Baal in the past, then they will be built in the midst of my people. [I will give them a place with me in the same way that I will give a place to my people.] 
17 But if they do not listen at that time, then I will destroy such a nation. I will destroy it and make it perish, says Yahweh.
