1 The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words.
2 Hear the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
3 Say to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Cursed be the man who does not obey the words of this covenant. 
4 That is to say, the words that I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the iron furnace. For I said to them at that time: Obey my voice and do all the things that I commanded you. And thus you will be my people, and I will be your God. 
5 I acted thus in order to fulfill the oath that I swore to your fathers, to give them that land where milk and honey flow. And you are living in that land today. Then I Jeremiah, I answered and said: So be it, O Yahweh. 
6 And Yahweh said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem by saying: Hear the words of this covenant, and obey them. 
7 For I have warned your fathers since the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt until this day. I have continually risen early and protested by saying: Obey my voice. 
8 But they did not pay attention, and did not obey. And each one have walked in the stubbornness of his wicked heart. Therefore I will fulfill all the words of this covenant for them, all that I had announced as punishment in case of disobedience to the commandments that I gave them and that they have not performed. 
9 And Yahweh said to me: There is a conspiracy among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
10 They have returned to the iniquities of their forefathers who had refused to listen to my words. They have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their fathers.
11 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Behold I will bring a disaster on them, and they will not be able to escape it. They will cry to me, but I will not listen. 
12 The cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and call on the gods to whom they offer incense, but those gods will not save them in the time of their trouble. 
13 For your gods are as many as the number of your cities, O Judah. And you have built the altars of confusion in every street of Jerusalem, altars to burn incense to Baal. 
14 Therefore do not pray for this people, you Jeremiah. Do not lift up a cry or a plea for them. For I will not listen to them when they cry to me in their trouble. 
15 Why has my beloved come into my house now. She has committed a multitude of iniquities. The offering of consecrated meat will not save you, for you have rejoiced when you was doing evil. 
16 A green olive tree, distinguished by the beauty of its fruit, that is the name that Yahweh had given you. But he will set that tree on fire with a powerful storm, and its branches will be broken. 
17 For Yahweh the God of armies is the one who planted you, and he has called a disaster on you because of the wickedness of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah. They have hurt themselves when they provoked me to anger by offering incense to Baal. 
18 And Yahweh let me know that some people were planning to harm me, and I became aware of this. You showed me what they were doing, says Jeremiah. 
19 I was like a sweet lamb that is led to slaughter, and I did not know the evil that they had planned against me. For they had said: Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, and let us cut him off from the land of the living so that his name may be no more remembered. 
20 But you are a righteous judge who probes the minds and the hearts, O Yahweh the God of armies. Let me see your vengeance against them, for I have entrusted my cause to you. 
21 And Yahweh said to me: Therefore thus speaks Yahweh concerning the men of Anathoth who seek your life and who say: Do not prophesy in the name of Yahweh if you do not want to die by our hand. 
22 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Behold I will punish them. The young men will die by the sword, and their sons and daughters will die by famine. 
23 None of them will escape. For I will bring a disaster on the men of Anathoth in the year that I will punish them.
