1 And Yahweh spoke to me thus: Go and buy a linen belt for yourself, and put it around your waist. You will not put it into the water. 
2 So I bought a belt according to the word of Yahweh, and put it around my waist. 
3 And the word of Yahweh came to me a second time in the following words. 
4 Take the belt that you have bought, which is around your waist, and get up, and go to Perath, and hide it there in a cleft of the rocks. 
5 So I went to Perath and hid it there, as Yahweh had commanded me. 
6 And after many days, Yahweh said to me: Arise and go to Perath, and take from there the belt that I commanded you to hide there.
7 So I went to Perath, and I dug, and I took the belt from the place where I had hidden it. And behold, the belt was marred and was no longer good for anything. 
8 Then the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
9 Thus says Yahweh: In this way I will mar the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem. 
10 This wicked people who refuses to listen to my words, and who walks in the stubbornness of their hearts, and who goes after other gods to serve them and to worship them. Therefore they will become like this belt which is no longer good for anything. 
11 For as a girdle is girded around a man's waist, so I tied to myself the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah, says Yahweh, in order to make them my people, and to make known my name, and my praise, and my glory. But my people did not listen to me. 
12 Therefore you will say to them this word, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, 'Every bottle will be filled with wine'. And they will say to you, 'Do we not know that every bottle will be filled with wine'. 
13 Then you will say to them, Thus says Yahweh: Behold I will fill all the inhabitants of this land with drunkenness, even the kings who sit on the throne of David, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
14 And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, says Yahweh. I will neither spare, nor have mercy, nor have compassion. Nothing will prevent me from destroying them. 
15 Pay attention and listen, do not be proud. For Yahweh has spoken. 
16 Give glory to Yahweh your God before he brings darkness, and before your feet stumble on the dark mountains. You look for light, but he will turn it into the shadow of death and make it gross darkness. 
17 If you do not obey his word, then I will weep in secret because of your pride. My eyes will weep bitterly and shed tears, because the the flock of Yahweh is led away captive. 
18 Say to the king and the queen his wife: Humble yourselves, and sit down on the ground. For the crown of your glory will fall from your heads.
19 The cities of the south will be shut up, and no man will open them. All Judah will be carried away captive, every one of them will be carried away captive. 
20 Lift up your eyes and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock that was given to you, the flock of your glory. 
21 What will you say when he sets over you those whom you yourself have taught to rule over you. Will not pangs take hold of you, like they take hold of a woman giving birth. 
22 If you say in your heart at that time, 'Why have these things happened to me'. Know that it is because of the multitude of your iniquities that your clothes and your shoes are taken from you. 
23 Can a man change the color of his skin, or a leopard his spots. Can you begin to do good, you who are accustomed to do evil. 
24 Therefore I will scatter them like stubble that is taken away by the wind of the wilderness. 
25 This is your portion, the part that you will get from me, says Yahweh, because you have forgotten me and have trusted in falseness. 
26 Therefore I will lift up your skirts over your face, and your private parts will be uncovered. 
27 I have seen your adulteries and your neighs, your shameless whoredom on the hills and in the fields [when you were prostituting your soul by worshiping false gods]. I have seen your abominations. Woe to you, O Jerusalem. How long will you continue in your evil way.
