1 Then Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah, they heard the following words that Jeremiah had spoken to all the people. 
2 Thus says Yahweh: Whoever will remain in this city will die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. But whoever will go outside to give himself to the Chaldeans will live. His life will be for him like a loot of war, and he will live. 
3 Thus says Yahweh: This city will surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon, and he will take it. 
4 And after they had heard these words of Jeremiah, then the princes [officials] said to the king: We beseech you, let this man be put to death. For he discourages the men of war who remain in this city, and also all the people, by telling them such words. For this man does not seek the welfare of this people, but the hurt. 
5 And Zedekiah the king replied: Behold he is in your hands. For the king is not the one who should act against you [since you seek the well-being of the king].
6 Then they took Jeremiah, and threw him into the cistern of Malchijah a son of the king. The cistern was in the courtyard of the guards, and they used ropes to make Jeremiah go down into the pit. There was no water in the cistern, but there was mud and Jeremiah sank into the mud. 
7 Now Ebed-melech the Ethiopian was one of the eunuchs who were in the house of the king, and he heard that they had put Jeremiah into the cistern. And the king was sitting in the gate of Benjamin. 
8 And Ebed-melech went out of the house of the king, and spoke to the king with the following words. 
9 O my lord the king, these men have done evil in the thing that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet. For they have thrown him into the cistern, and he will die of hunger in the place where he is. For there is no more bread in the city. 
10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian by saying: Take here thirty men with you, and you will go together to bring Jeremiah the prophet out of the cistern before he dies. 
11 So Ebed-melech took the men with him, and they went to the house of the king. They went in a room that was under the treasury, and took there some old rags and worn-out garments, and let them down by ropes to Jeremiah into the cistern. 
12 And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah: Put now these rags and worn-out garments under your armpits, to wrap the parts of the ropes that touch you in these places [so as not to be hurt when we are going to pull on the ropes to get you out of the pit]. And Jeremiah did thus. 
13 So they pulled Jeremiah with the ropes, and took him out of the cistern. And Jeremiah stayed in the courtyard of the guards. 
14 Then king Zedekiah sent, and they took Jeremiah the prophet and brought him to the king at the third entrance of the temple of Yahweh. And the king said to Jeremiah: I will ask you one thing, do not hide anything from me. 
15 And Jeremiah replied to Zedekiah: Will you not kill me if I answer you honestly. And will you listen to me if I give you advice. 
16 And king Zedekiah swore secretly to Jeremiah by saying: As Yahweh is alive, he who gives us the breath of life, I will not make you die, and I will not give you into the hand of the men who want to make you die. 
17 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, Thus says Yahweh the God of the armies, the God of Israel: If you choose to go and deliver yourself to the leaders of the army of the king of Babylon, then your soul will live and this city will not be burned by fire. And you will live, you and your house. 
18 But if you do not go to the leaders of the army of the king of Babylon, then this city will be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they will burn it with fire, and you will not escape from their hand. 
19 And king Zedekiah said to Jeremiah: I fear the Jews who have already gone to submit to the Chaldeans. I fear that the Chaldeans will deliver me into their hands, and that those Jews will mock me. 
20 And Jeremiah replied: The Chaldeans will not deliver you into the hand of the men of Judah. I beseech you to listen to the voice of Yahweh in all that I tell you. And thus events will happen in your favor, and your soul will live. 
21 But if you refuse to surrender to the Chaldeans, then the following thing is what Yahweh has revealed to me. 
22 Behold all the women who are left in the house of the king of Judah will be brought to the leaders of the army of the king of Babylon, and those women will make fun of you with the following song: Your friends were stronger than you, and they led you the wrong way. You trusted them, and now your feet are stuck in the mud, and your friends have left you. 
23 So they will bring out all your wives and your children to the Chaldeans. As for you, you will not escape from their hand. You will be taken by the hand of the king of Babylon, and this city will be burned with fire because you will not have listened to my advice. 
24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah: Let no one know anything about these words, and I will not command to kill you. 
25 And if the princes [officials] hear that I have talked with you, and if they come and say to you: Tell us now what you have said to the king. Do not hide it from us, and we will not make you die. And tell us also what the king has said to you. 
26 Then you will answer them: I have begged the king not to send me back to the house of Jonathan, lest I die there. 
27 After that, all the princes [officials] came to Jeremiah and questioned him. And Jeremiah answered them according to all the words that the king had commanded. So they departed without being disturbed, for no one knew anything about the real conversation that had taken place between Jeremiah and the king. 
28 So Jeremiah stayed in the prison, in the courtyard of the guards, until the day that Jerusalem was taken. And he was there when Jerusalem was taken.
