1 In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem and they besieged it. 
2 And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, on the ninth day of the fourth month, the Chaldeans entered the city. 
3 And all the leaders of the army of the king of Babylon came and sat at the middle gate. They were Nergal, Sharezer, and Samgar-nebo, and Sarsechim, and Rab-saris, Nergal, Sharezar, Rab-mag, and all the other leaders of the army of the king of Babylon. 
4 And when Zedekiah the king of Judah and all the men of war saw that the Chaldeans had entered the city, they fled and went out of the city in the night. They went by the way of the gate that was between the two walls that was near the king's garden. And they went toward the wilderness. 
5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And when they had taken Zedekiah, they brought him to Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and they judged him there. 
6 Then the king of Babylon caused to kill the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah, before the eyes of Zedekiah. And the king of Babylon also killed all the nobles of Judah. 
7 And then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bonded him in chains, and carried him to Babylon. 
8 And the Chaldeans burned with fire the king's house and the houses of the people. And they demolished the walls of Jerusalem. 
9 Then Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the remaining of the people who were in the city, both those who had fled before the king of Babylon and those who had been left in the city.
10 But Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard left of the poor who possessed nothing in the land of Judah, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time. 
11 Now Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon had given the following order to Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard concerning Jeremiah. 
12 Take him, and watches over him. Do not hurt him, but do to him what he will say to you. 
13 So Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard sent soldiers to fetch Jeremiah. And other soldiers were sent by Nebushazban, and Rab-saris, and Nergal, and Sharezer, and Rab-mag, and all the other leaders of the army of the king of Babylon. 
14 And they took Jeremiah out of the courtyard of the guard, and gave him to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, to bring Jeremiah home. And thus Jeremiah dwelt among the people. 
15 Now the following word of Yahweh had come to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the courtyard of the guard. 
16 Go and speak to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian [that is to say, ask him to come to receive a message], and tell him: Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will bring my words on this city for evil and not for good, and they will be fulfilled before you in that day. 
17 But I will deliver you from death in that day, says Yahweh, and you will not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid. 
18 For I will surely deliver you from death [at that time], and you will not fall by the sword. Your life will be your loot, because you have put your trust in me, says Yahweh.
