1 In that same year, in the fifth month of the fourth year of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, there was a prophet called Hananiah who was the son of Azzur and who was from Gibeon. And he said the following thing to me in the house [temple] of Yahweh, in the presence of the priests and of all the people. 
2 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel [who has spoken to me, I Hananiah]: I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. 
3 Within the space of two full years I will bring back to this place all the utensils of the house of Yahweh, the utensils that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took from this place and carried to Babylon. 
4 And I will bring back to this place Jeconiah [also called Jehoiachin] the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah who went to Babylon, says Yahweh. For I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. 
5 Then Jeremiah the prophet said the following thing to Hananiah the prophet, in the presence of the priests and of all the people who were in the house of Yahweh [namely in the courtyards of the temple of Yahweh]. 
6 Jeremiah the prophet said: So be it. May Yahweh do so. May Yahweh perform your words as you have prophesied it. May he restore to this place the utensils of the house of Yahweh and all the captives. 
7 But listen now to the following word that I speak in your ears and in the ears of all the people. 
8 There have been prophets before me and before you, from the ancient times. And they prophesied against many countries and against great kingdoms, and they announced either war, or disaster, or pestilence. 
9 But if there is a prophet who announces the way in which peace will be restored in times of trouble, and if events occur in accordance with his prophecy, then the people will know that this prophet has not spoken falsely when he said that Yahweh has sent him. 
10 Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, and broke it. 
11 And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people by saying, 'Thus says Yahweh, I will break thus the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the necks of all the nations, within the space of two full years'. And Jeremiah the prophet went away. 
12 Now after Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
13 Go and tell Hananiah the following thing, 'Thus says Yahweh: You have broken a yoke of wood, but I have made yokes of iron instead of yokes of wood'. 
14 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, in order to make them serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. For they will serve him, and I have also given him the beasts of the field. 
15 Then Jeremiah the prophet said to Hananiah the prophet: Hear now, Hananiah. Yahweh has not sent you, and you make this people believe a lie. 
16 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Behold I will remove you from the face of the earth, because your words have been rebellion against Yahweh. And you will die this year. 
17 And Hananiah the prophet died in the same year, in the seventh month.
