1 The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah. Hilkiah was one of the priests who lived in Anathoth, in the land of Benjamin.
2 The word of Yahweh came to him in the days of Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. 
3 And also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah and king of Judah, until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah and king of Judah, until the time when Jerusalem was taken to captivity in the fifth month. 
4 The word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
5 Before I formed you in the belly of your mother, I knew you. Before you came out of the womb, I sanctified you and I appointed you to be a prophet for the nations. 
6 And I replied: Oh Lord Yahweh, behold I do not know how to speak because I am a child. 
7 But Yahweh said to me: Do not say, 'I am a child'. For you will go to all those to whom I will send you, and you will say everything that I will command you. 
8 Do not be afraid of their faces: For I am with you to protect you, says Yahweh. 
9 Then Yahweh extended his hand, and touched my mouth. And Yahweh said to me: Behold I have put my words in your mouth. 
10 Behold I establish you today over the nations and over the kingdoms, to pluck up, and to root out, and to destroy, and to overthrow, and to build, and to plant. 
11 Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me by saying, 'What do you see, Jeremiah'. And I replied: I see a branch of an almond tree. 
12 Then Yahweh said to me: You have seen correctly. For I watch over my word, to perform it. 
13 And the word of Yahweh came to me again by saying, 'What do you see'. And I replied: I see a boiling cauldron that is oriented toward the north. 
14 Then Yahweh said to me: It is from the north that calamity will spread on all the inhabitants of the land. 
15 For lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, says Yahweh. And they will come, and each will place his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, and all around its surrounding walls, and in all the cities of Judah. 
16 And I will pronounce my judgments against my people, because of all their wickedness, because they have forsaken me and have offered incense to other gods, and have worshiped the work of their hands. 
17 As for you, Jeremiah, gird up your waist and arise. You will tell them everything that I will command you. Do not be afraid of their faces, lest I put you into confusion before them. 
18 For behold, I establish you today on the whole land like a strong city, like an iron pillar and a wall of brass, against the kings of Judah and against its princes [leaders], against its priests and against the people of the land. 
19 They will fight against you, but they will not prevail against you. For I am with you to protect you, says Yahweh.
