1 Then all the captains of the army, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least to the greatest, they came near to Jeremiah. 
2 And they said to Jeremiah the prophet: We beseech you to listen to our request. Pray to Yahweh your God for our welfare, for all this little remnant of the people. For we are only a few who are alive and free after all the misfortunes that have befallen the people of Judah, as you can see with your own eyes. 
3 And thus Yahweh your God may show us the way in which we should walk, and the thing that we should do. 
4 Then Jeremiah the prophet said to them: I have heard you. Behold I will pray to Yahweh your God, according to your words. And I will tell you everything that Yahweh will answer you, without hiding anything from you. 
5 Then they said to Jeremiah: May Yahweh be the true and faithful witness against us, if we do not do everything that Yahweh your God will tell you in his answer. 
6 Whether it is good or evil, we will obey the voice of Yahweh our God. We are sending you to him because we know that we will triumph against all adversities when we obey the voice of Yahweh our God. 
7 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah ten days later. 
8 And Jeremiah called Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army who were with him, and all the people from the least to the greatest. 
9 And Jeremiah said to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, the one to whom you sent me to transmit your supplications. 
10 If you stay in this land, then I will build you and I will not destroy you. I will plant you, and I will not uproot you. For I repent of the evil that I have done to you. 
11 Do not be afraid of the king of Babylon, the one of whom you are afraid now. Do not fear him, says Yahweh. For I am with you to save you, and to deliver you out of his hand. 
12 I will cause him to have compassion on you, because I will have mercy on you. He will make you dwell in your own land. 
13 But if you do not obey the voice of Yahweh your God, if you say: We will not dwell in this land. 
14 If you say: We will go into the land of Egypt, because we will not see war there. Thus we will not hear the sound of the trumpet, and we will not become hungry for lack of bread, and we will dwell there. 
15 Now therefore listen to the word of Yahweh, you the remnant of Judah. Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: If you turn your face in order to go to Egypt, if you go to sojourn there. 
16 Then the sword that you fear will reach you in the land of Egypt. And the famine of which you are afraid will cling to you in Egypt, and you will die there. 
17 So whoever among you turns his face to go into Egypt in order to sojourn there, the same will die by the sword, or by the famine, or by the pestilence. And none of them will survive, none of them will escape from the evil that I will bring on them. 
18 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: As my anger and my fury has been spread over the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so my fury will be spread over you when you enter into Egypt. And you will be an execration, a subject of disgust, and of astonishment, and of reproach, and a curse, and you will never come back to this place again. 
19 O you the remnant of Judah, Yahweh has said the following thing concerning you: Do not go to Egypt. [Says Jeremiah.] 
20 Know for sure that I have sincerely warned you today. Surely you have disguised your thoughts when you sent me to Yahweh your God by saying: Pray for us to Yahweh our God, and tell us all that Yahweh our God will say, and we will do it. 
21 For today I have declared to you the answer of Yahweh your God, but you do not want to obey the voice of Yahweh your God concerning all the things that he has sent me to tell you. 
22 Now therefore, know with certainty that you will die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place where you desire to go to sojourn there.
