1 Thus speaks Yahweh: Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and there you will declare the following thing. 
2 You will say: Listen to the word of Yahweh, O you the king of Judah who is sitting on the throne of David, you and your servants, and your people who enter by these gates. 
3 Thus speaks Yahweh: Execute justice and fairness, deliver the oppressed out of the hand of the oppressor. Do not mistreat the foreigner, or the fatherless, or the widow. Do not use violence, and do not shed innocent blood in this place. 
4 For if you act in this way, then the kings who are sitting on the throne will continue to enter by the gates of this house, and to ride in chariots and on horses, they, and their servants, and their people. 
5 But I swear by myself that this house [of the kings of Judah] will become a ruin if you do not obey to these words, says Yahweh. 
6 For thus speaks Yahweh concerning the house of the king of Judah: You are for me like Gilead, and like the summit of Lebanon. But I will certainly make you a wilderness, like cities that are not inhabited. 
7 And I will prepare destroyers against you, each with his weapons, and they will cut down your most beautiful cedar trees and throw them into the fire. 
8 And people from many nations will pass by this city, and they will say to each other: Why has Yahweh done thus to this great city. 
9 And they will answer: Because they have forsaken the covenant of Yahweh their God, and have worshiped other gods, and have served them. 
10 Do not weep for the one who is dead, and do not bemoan him. But weep for the one who is going away. For he will not return, he will no longer see his native country. 
11 For thus speaks Yahweh concerning Shallum [also called Jehoahaz] the son of Josias king of Judah, he who reigned instead of his father Josiah and who has been taken away from this place: He will never come back. 
12 For he will no longer see this land, and he will die in the place where he has been taken into captivity. 
13 Woe to him who builds his house by the fruit of unrighteousness, and his private rooms by the fruit of injustice. He who makes his neighbor work without paying him, without giving him his salary, and who says the following thing. 
14 I will build for myself a large house, with spacious rooms. And I will beautify it with large windows, and with a cedar ceiling, and I will paint it with vermilion. 
15 Is it because of your passion for cedars that you have been made king [over my people whom I had chosen to bear my name]. Did not your father eat, and drink, and prosper, when he practiced justice and fairness. [Your ancestor David acted in this way, and he is your father according to the fact that he is the one because of whom you have become king over my people.]  
16 He was judging the cause of the afflicted and of the poor, and he was prospering. Is it not the practice of these things that means that a person knows me, says Yahweh. 
17 But you use your eyes and your heart only for your greed, and to shed innocent blood, and to practice oppression and violence. 
18 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah and king of Judah: The people of Judah will not mourn him. They will not say to each other, 'Ah my brother' or 'Ah my sister'. They will not lament for him by saying, 'Ah lord' or 'Ah his glory'. 
19 Jehoiakim will be buried like a donkey is buried, dragged and thrown outside the gates of Jerusalem. 
20 O people of Judah, go up to Lebanon and cry out. Lift up your voice in Bashan, and cry out from the passages. For all those who love you will be destroyed. 
21 I spoke to you in the time of your prosperity, but you said, 'I will not hear'. This is how you have acted from your youth, you did not want to obey my voice. 
22 The wind of fury will smite all the pastors, and those who love you will go into captivity [that is to say, those people from whom you hope for help will also be taken into captivity]. Surely then you will be ashamed and confused, because of all your wickedness. 
23 O inhabitants of Lebanon, you who make your nest in the cedars, you will be so beautiful when pangs come on you like the pangs of a woman giving birth. 
24 I am alive, says Yahweh. Even if Coniah [also called Jehoiachin] the son of Jehoiakim and king of Judah were a ring in my right hand, I would pluck you from there. 
25 I will give you into the hand of those who seek your life, into the hand of those of whom you are afraid, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans. 
26 And I will cause them to carry you away, you and your mother who gave birth to you, into another country where you were not born. And you will die there. 
27 And you will desire to return to your land, but it will not happen. 
28 Is not this man Coniah [also called Jehoiachin] a despised and broken vase. Is he not a vase in which no one takes pleasure. Why are they carried away, he and his seed, and thrown into a land that they do not know.
29 O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the Yahweh. 
30 Thus speaks Yahweh: Register this man as deprived of [spiritual] children, a man who will not prosper in his days. For none of his descendants will succeed in sitting on the throne of David to rule over Judah.
