1 Yahweh says: If a man divorces his wife [because of a sincere disagreement between the two of them] and she leaves him, and if she becomes the wife of another man, should her first husband take her back after that. Will not the land itself be polluted by such practices. [For each person must give a proportional response to each offense that is done to him, and to forgive does not mean to forget but rather to take appropriate precautions in the future.] 
2 Now you have played the whore with other lovers [that is to say, by worshiping all your false gods], and you want to return to me, says Yahweh. Lift up your eyes to the heights and look. Where have you not played the whore. You have sat down to wait for them from place to place like an Arabian in the wilderness, and you have polluted the land with your whoredom and with your wickedness.
3 Therefore the rains have been withheld, and there was no latter rain. Nevertheless you have had the forehead of a whore, for you have refused to be ashamed. 
4 And now you [the whole nation] cry to me by saying: You are my father, for you were the guide of my youth [that is to say, the guide of our ancestors]. Will he retain his anger forever. Will he retain it until the end. 
5 This is how you talk to me, after doing evil things. 
6 Yahweh said to me again in the days of king Josiah: Have you seen what the unfaithful [kingdom of] Israel had done. She had gone up on every high mountain and under every green tree, and there she had played the whore [by worshiping false gods]. 
7 And I had thought that some of the generations of her children might come back to me after she had done all these things. But she has not returned, and her hypocritical sister who is [the kingdom of] Judah has seen it. 
8 And when I saw how the unfaithful Israel was playing the whore at every opportunity, I rejected her completely and gave her her divorce certificate. And her hypocritical sister Judah has not been afraid, but she also went and played the whore [by the fact of striving to disobey my commandments]. 
9 I say, the unfaithful Israel had defiled her land by her blatant whoredom. All the generations of her children had committed adultery by worshiping false gods made of stone and wood. 
10 And after having seen my answer to the unfaithful Israel, her hypocritical sister Judah has not returned to me with her whole heart. For she has acted feignedly, says Yahweh. 
11 And Yahweh said to me: The unfaithful Israel seems innocent compared to the hypocritical Judah. 
12 Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say: Return, you the unfaithful people of Israel, says Yahweh. I will not look at you with harsh eyes. For I am merciful, says Yahweh, therefore I will not keep my anger forever. 
13 Only acknowledge your iniquity. Acknowledge that you [and your fathers] have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and that you have scattered your ways to strange gods under every green tree, and have not obeyed my voice, says Yahweh. 
14 Return, you the unfaithful children, says Yahweh. For I am your Lord. I will take you, one from a city, two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion. 
15 And I will give you shepherds according to my own heart, and they will feed you with knowledge and understanding. 
16 And when you will have multiplied and been fruitful in the land, in those days, says Yahweh, the ark of the covenant of Yahweh will be no more spoken of. It will not come into the mind, and it will not be remembered, and the need of it will not be felt, and another will not be done. 
17 .
18 .
19 .
20 .
21 .
22 .
23 .
24 .
25 .
