1 And Pashhur heard Jeremiah prophesying these things. He was the son of Immer the priest, and a high officer in the temple of Yahweh. 
2 Then Pashhur smote Jeremiah the prophet [that is to say, he caused to smite him], and he locked the hands and feet of Jeremiah between large blocks of wood. This was at the upper gate of Benjamin of the temple of Yahweh. [Jotham king of Judah had built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh.] 
3 And Pashhur released Jeremiah the next morning, and then Jeremiah said to him: Yahweh has not called your name Pashhur, but Magor-missabib. 
4 For thus says Yahweh: Behold I will deliver you to terror, you and all your friends. They will fall by the sword of their enemies, and your own eyes will see it. And I will also deliver all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will carry them captive to Babylon after killing a part of them with the sword. 
5 And I will deliver into the hand of their enemies all the riches of this city among which are the products of the labor of its inhabitants. All the precious things of the city and all the treasures of the kings of Judah will be plundered, and taken away, and carry to Babylon.
6 And you Pashhur, and all those who dwell in your house, you all will go into captivity. You will go to Babylon, and you will die there, and you will be buried there, you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied falsely. 
7 O Yahweh, you have persuaded me, and I am persuaded. You are stronger than me, and you have prevailed on me. And I have become an object of mockery, everyone makes fun of me every day. [Says Jeremiah.]
8 Because every time I speak, I cry out to announce violence and destruction. The word of Yahweh has made of me an object of reproach and derision all day long.
9 Sometimes I say to myself, 'I will not mention him anymore when I speak, and I will no longer speak on his behalf'. But there is something in my heart, like a devouring fire that dries up my bones. I feel uncomfortable when I try to contain your message inside me, I cannot refrain from doing your will. 
10 And now I hear the defamations of several people, and there is terror on every side. For they say, 'Accuse him, let us accuse him'. All those who were at peace with me are now hoping that I will stumble, and they say: Perhaps we can trick Jeremiah, and we will prevail against him and take our revenge on him. 
11 But Yahweh is with me like a mighty warrior. Therefore my persecutors will stumble and will not prevail. They will be filled with shame, because they have acted unwisely. It will be an everlasting shame that will never be forgotten. 
12 O Yahweh the God of armies, you test the righteous and you see the mind and the heart. Let me see your vengeance against them, for I have entrusted my cause to you. 
13 Sing to Yahweh, praise Yahweh. For he delivers the soul of the poor from the hand of the evildoers. 
14 Cursed be the day in which I was born. May the day in which my mother gave birth to me not be blessed. [For I do not desire the general disaster that I have the responsibility to announce and that will affect the totality of my people.] 
15 Cursed be the man who brought this news to my father and made him glad by saying: A man child is born to you. [Now Jeremiah is not perfect as it is the case of any normal human being, because he is not Christ.] 
16 Let that man be like a city that Yahweh is destroying without mercy. Let him hear shouts of war in the morning and wails at noon. 
17 Why was it not God's pleasure to kill me in my mother's womb. Why has she not been my grave. Or why has she not kept me in her womb forever rather than to give birth to me. 
18 Why did I come out of my mother's womb to see pain and sorrow, and to spend my days in shame in the eyes of all those with whom I interact.
