1 At that time, says Yahweh, I will be the God of all the families [tribes] of Israel and they will be my people. 
2 Thus says Yahweh: They have found grace in the wilderness, the people of those who had escaped the sword. Israel walks towards his place of rest. 
3 Yahweh has looked at me from afar and has said: I love you with an everlasting love. That is why I keep my kindness toward you. 
4 I will build you and you will be restored, O virgin of Israel. You will be adorned with your tambourines again, and you will dance like all those who have joy in the heart. 
5 You will plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria again. The planters will plant, and will enjoy the fruits. 
6 For the day will come when the watchmen will cry out on the mountain of Ephraim: Get up and we will go up at Zion, we will go to Yahweh our God. 
7 For thus says Yahweh: Sing with gladness for Jacob, shout for Israel who is the greatest of the nations. Publish praise and say: O Yahweh, you save your people the remnant of Israel. 
8 Behold I bring them back from the country of the north, and I gather them from the ends of the earth. Among them are the blind and the lame, women with children and pregnant women. A great company will return. 
9 They will come weeping, and I will lead them in the middle of their supplications. I will lead them along streams of water, on smooth paths so that they do not stumble. For I am a father for Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn. 
10 Listen to the word of Yahweh, O you the nations, and declare it in the distant islands: He who has scattered Israel will gather him, and will keep him like a shepherd keeps his flock. 
11 For Yahweh has redeemed Jacob. Yahweh has ransomed Jacob from the hand of the one who is stronger than he.
12 Therefore they will come and rejoice on the heights of Zion. They will be happy because of the goodness of Yahweh, for the wheat, and the wine, and the oil, and the young of sheep and oxen. And their soul will be like a watered garden, and they will sorrow no more. 
13 The young girls will rejoice in dance, the young men and the old men together. For I will turn their mourning into joy, and I will comfort them. I will give them joy after their past sorrows. 
14 I will satisfy the soul of priests with lots of good food, and my people will be satisfied with my goodness, says Yahweh. 
15 Thus speaks Yahweh: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentations and bitter weeping. Rachel weep for her children, and she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no longer. 
16 Thus speaks Yahweh: Refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears. For your works will be rewarded, says Yahweh, and they will return from the land of the enemy. 
17 There is hope for your latter end, says Yahweh. Your children will come back to their own land. 
18 I have heard Ephraim lamenting thus: You have chastised me, and I have been chastised like an ox that had not yet been trained to carry the yoke. Turn your face toward me now, and I will submit myself to you because you are Yahweh my God. 
19 I wandered away from you. But I finally realized how wrong I was, and I smote my thigh to punish myself for my madness. So I changed my heart and my life. I am ashamed and embarrassed about the foolish things that I did when I was young. 
20 Was not Ephraim a beloved son and a pleasant child to me. I have rebuked him, but I have not forgotten him. Therefore my bowels are troubled for him. I will surely have mercy on him, says Yahweh. 
21 Set up waymarks, renew the signposts. Pay attention to the road, to the path in which you walk. Come back to me, O virgin of Israel. Return to these cities that are yours. 
22 How long will you go astray, you the rebellious daughter. For Yahweh has created a new thing in the land: The woman will seek the man. 
23 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Here is what they will say again in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I bring back the [families of the] captives taken from there: Yahweh bless you, O habitation of righteousness, O mountain of holiness. 
24 The people will dwell in all the cities of Judah, all together, the plowmen and those who drive the flocks. 
25 For I will refresh the thirsty soul, and satisfy every languishing soul. 
26 And I awoke [from my dream] after hearing these things, and behold, my sleep had been pleasant to me. [I Jeremiah.] 
27 Behold the days are coming when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and with the seed of beast, says Yahweh. 
28 I will have watched over them to uproot, and to overthrow, and to destroy, to hurt and to afflict, but after that I will watch over them to build and to plant, says Yahweh.
29 And in those days they will no longer say: The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. 
30 But everyone will die for his own iniquity. The teeth of each man will be set on edge because of the sour grapes that he has eaten. [The transgressions of the fathers will no longer directly influence the transgressions of the sons, as the transgressions of Jeroboam king of Israel had caused the kingdom of Israel to sin for several generations because they did not turn away from it.] 
31 For behold, the days are coming when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, says Yahweh. 
32 And it will not be like the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. And they had broken my covenant, although I was a husband to them, says Yahweh. [My servant Moses had broken the first two tablets of the covenant, which contained the ten commandments that I had spoken previously in the ears of all the people who had gathered at the foot of the mountain. And my servant Moses had broken these first two tablets of the covenant because of the transgression of the people, the transgression that he had seen when he came down from the mountain.] 
33 But this will be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says Yahweh. I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they will be my people.
34 And they will no more teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, by saying, 'Know Yahweh'. For they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says Yahweh. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will no more remember their sin. [That is to say, I will no more remember their collective transgression of my first covenant which will have had consequences for several generations because they had heard my voice before that.] 
35 Thus says Yahweh. The one who has given the sun for a light by day, and the courses of the moon and of the stars for a light by night. He who divides the sea and makes its waves roar. His name is Yahweh the God of armies. 
36 If these ordinances cease from before me, says Yahweh, then the seed of Israel will cease from being a nation before me forever. [The nation of the children of Jacob was divided into two kingdoms in the days of the kings of Israel and the kings of Judah, but it was always one nation.] 
37 Thus says Yahweh: If the sky above can be measured, or if the foundations of the earth beneath can be searched, then I will cast off the whole seed of Israel because of all that they have done, says Yahweh. 
38 .
39 .
40 .
