1 Now when Jeremiah had finished speaking to all the people all the words of Yahweh their God, the words with which Yahweh their God had sent him to them. 
2 Then Azariah [also called Jezaniah] the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the proud men, they said to Jeremiah: You are speaking insincerely. Yahweh our God has not send you to tell us, 'Do not go to Egypt to dwell there'. 
3 Surely it is Baruch the son of Neriah who has persuaded you to act against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans so that they may kill us or carry us away captive to Babylon. 
4 So Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army, and all the people, they refused to obey the voice of Yahweh who commanded them to stay in the land of Judah and to dwell there. 
5 And Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army, they took all the remnant of Judah who had come to dwell in the land of Judah and who had returned from all the nations where they had been driven. [They had returned when they had heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of the people in Judah, and had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan.] 
6 There were men, and women, and children, and the king's daughters, and all the people whom Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah. 
7 And they went into the land of Egypt, because they did not obey the voice of Yahweh in what he had said by the hand of Jeremiah. And they came to Tahpanhes. [Now the reason why Jeremiah has followed these people to Egypt has not been specified. Maybe he did not want to stay alone in the land and thought that he could still be useful to some of his people, since the group had been led in the wrong way by some leaders and therefore not everyone had the same guilt. For comparison, when Moses brought the people out of the land of Egypt and the people had provoked Yahweh several times, Yahweh had decided that it was the generation of people who were old enough to be men of war who should completely perish for forty years in the wilderness, and their children who did not yet know the distinction between good and evil should endure for forty years before taking the place of their fathers.] 
8 Then the following word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah at Tahpanhes. 
9 Take great stones in your hand, and hide them in the clay of the brick kiln that is at the entrance of Pharaoh's house at Tahpanhes. Do it in the sight of the men of Judah. 
10 And you will say to the Jews, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will send and call my servant Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, and I will set his throne on these stones that I have hidden. He will spread his royal pavilion over them. 
11 And he will smite the land of Egypt when he comes. Those who are destined to death, to death. And those who are destined to the captivity, to the captivity. And those who are destined to the sword, to the sword. 
12 And I will set fire to the temples of the gods of Egypt. Nebuchadrezzar will burn those temples, and will carry the idols away. He will wrap himself in the land of Egypt as a shepherd wraps himself in his garment, and he will depart from there in peace. 
13 He will also break the pillars of Beth-shemesh that are in the land of Egypt, and he will burn with fire the temples of the gods of Egypt.
