1 Flee from the midst of Jerusalem, you the children of Benjamin. Blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a banner at Beth-haccherem. For evil and great destruction are coming from the north. 
2 I will destroy the beautiful and delicate daughter of Zion.
3 Shepherds with their flocks will come to her. They will pitch their tents around her, and each one will graze on his portion. 
4 Prepare to attack her. Arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe to us, for the day is fading, and the shadows of the evening are lengthening. 
5 Therefore arise, and let us go up at night, and let us destroy her palaces. 
6 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Cut down the trees and cast up a mound against Jerusalem. This city must be punished, for there is nothing but oppression in her midst. 
7 As a fountain pours out its waters, so Jerusalem pours out her wickedness. There is violence and oppression in her midst, and I see only sorrow and wounds there. 
8 Receive the instruction, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from you and I make you a desolation, a land without inhabitants. 
9 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: The remnant of Israel will be gleaned like a vine. Turn again your hand, like a grape-gatherer over the vines. 
10 To whom will I speak. Who will I warn. Who will listen to me. Behold their ears are uncircumcised, and they cannot listen. Behold the word of Yahweh has become a disgusting thing for them, they have no delight in it. 
11 Therefore I am filled with the wrath of Yahweh, I am weary of holding it back. I will pour it out on the children in the street, and on the assemblies of the young men. For both man and woman will be taken, and the aged with him who is full of days. 
12 And their houses and their fields will be taken by others, and their wives also. For I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land, says Yahweh. 
13 For from the least of them to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for gain. And from the prophet to the priest, everyone acts falsely. 
14 They have healed the wound of the daughter of my people slightly by saying 'Peace, peace', while there is no peace.
15 Were they ashamed when they had committed abominations. No, they were not at all ashamed and they could not blush. Therefore they will fall among those who will fall. They will be cast down when I visit them, says Yahweh. 
16 Thus says Yahweh: Stand at the crossroads and see, and ask for the ancient paths. Ask for the good way, and walk in it in order to find rest for your souls. But they say, 'We will not walk in it'. 
17 I have set watchmen over them, and I have said. 'Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet'. But they say, 'We will not pay attention to it'. 
18 Therefore listen, you nations. Know what will happen to them, you the assembly of the peoples. [Know why it will happen to them.] 
19 Hear, O earth. Behold I will bring a disaster on this people, in accordance with the fruit of their thoughts. For they have rejected my law, and they have despised my words. 
20 Why do you bring me incense from Sheba, or sweet cane from a far country. Your burnt offerings are not pleasant to me, and your sacrifices are not pleasant to me. 
21 Therefore thus says Yahweh: Behold I will lay stumbling blocks before this people. Fathers and sons will stumble over them, neighbors and friends will perish. 
22 Thus says Yahweh: Behold a people comes from the north country, a great nation arises from the ends of the earth. 
23 They carry bows and spears. They are cruel and have no compassion, their voice roars like the sea. They ride on horses and are ready to fight as one man against you, O daughter of Zion. 
24 Our hands grow weak while they approach, anguish grips us like the pain of a woman giving birth. 
25 Do not go out into the fields or walk along the highways. For the sword of the enemy is there, and terror reigns around.
26 O daughter of my people, cover yourself with sackcloth and roll yourself in ashes. Mourn as if for an only son, weep with bitter tears. For the destroyer will come on us suddenly. 
27 I have set you for an overseer and a fortress among my people, so that you may know and probe their way. [You Jeremiah.] 
28 They are all rebels and slanderers, their foreheads are made of brass and iron. They are all corrupt. 
29 The bellows are hot, the lead is consumed by the fire. It is in vain that one refines, the dross are not taken away. 
30 They will be called contemptible silver, for Yahweh has rejected them.
