1 At the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, the following word came from Yahweh. 
2 Thus says Yahweh: Stand in the courtyard of the house of the Yahweh, and speak to those who come from all the towns of Judah to worship in the temple of Yahweh. You will tell them all the words that I command you, and you will not diminish a word. 
3 Perhaps they will listen and turn away each one from his evil way. And then I will repent of the evil that I purpose to do to them because of the wickedness of their deeds. 
4 You will say to them, Thus says Yahweh: If you do not listen to me when I command you to walk in my law that I have set before you. 
5 If you do not listen to the words of my servants the prophets whom I send to you. For I arise early in the morning to send them, but you do not want to listen. 
6 Then I will cause this house [that is called by my name] to become like Shiloh, and will make this city a curse to all the nations of the earth. 
7 Now the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, they heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house [temple] of Yahweh. 
8 And when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that Yahweh had commanded him to speak to all the people, then he was seized by the priests, and the prophets, and all the people. And they were saying: You will surely die. 
9 Why have you prophesied in the name of Yahweh by saying, 'This house will become like Shiloh, and this city will be desolate without an inhabitant'. And all the people gathered against Jeremiah in the house [temple] of Yahweh. 
10 And when the princes [leaders] of Judah heard these things, then they came up from the king's house to the house [temple] of Yahweh, and sat down at the entrance of the new gate of the temple of Yahweh. [Jotham king of Judah had built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh.] 
11 Then the priests and the prophets spoke to the princes [leaders] and to all the people by saying: This man deserves to die. For he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your ears. 
12 Then Jeremiah said to all the princes [leaders] and to all the people: Yahweh has sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard. 
13 Now therefore reform your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of Yahweh your God. For then Yahweh will repent of the evil that he has pronounced against you. 
14 As for me, behold I am in your hands. Do to me what seems good and right in your eyes. 
15 But know that if you kill me, then you will have put innocent blood on yourselves, and on this city, and on its inhabitants. For it is really Yahweh who has sent me to you, to speak all these words in your ears. 
16 Then the princes [leaders] and all the people said to the priests and to the prophets: This man does not deserve to die, for he has spoken to us in the name of Yahweh our God. 
17 Then some of the elders of the land stood up and said the following thing to all the assembly of the people. 
18 Micah the Morashtite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and he spoke to all the people of Judah by saying: Thus says Yahweh the God of armies, Zion will be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem will become like heaps of stones, and the mountain of the temple will become a forest. 
19 Had Hezekiah king of Judah and all the people of Judah put him to death. Had not Hezekiah feared Yahweh and had he not entreated Yahweh to have mercy. And then Yahweh had repented of the evil that he had pronounced against them. Why should we bring such a great sin on our souls [by killing Jeremiah]. 
20 Now there was also a man who prophesied in the name of Yahweh, Uriah the son of Shemaiah who was from Kiriath-jearim. He had prophesied against this city and against this land by saying the same words that Jeremiah has prophesied. 
21 And when Jehoiakim the king heard the words of Uriah, the king with all his mighty men and with all his princes [leaders], then the king sought to kill him. But when Uriah heard it, he fled and went into Egypt because he was afraid. 
22 Then king Jehoiakim sent men into Egypt, namely Elnathan the son of Achbor and some men with him, into Egypt. 
23 And they took Uriah out of Egypt and brought him to king Jehoiakim, and the king caused him to be killed with the sword, and his dead body was thrown into the graves of the common people. 
24 But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah to protect him, so that he would not be given into the hands of the people who wanted to kill him.
