1 Now Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elishama was of the family of the king and one of the chief officers of the king. And he came in the seventh month with ten men to meet Gedaliah the son of Ahikam at Mizpah. And they ate bread together there in Mizpah. 
2 Then Ishmael the son of Nethaniah arose with these ten men who had come with him, and they smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan with the sword. They killed the man whom the king of Babylon had made governor of the land. 
3 And Ishmael also killed all the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and all the Chaldeans who were found there. These Chaldeans were men of war. 
4 Now it was on the second day after they had killed Gedaliah, and no one else knew anything about what happened there. 
5 And eighty men arrived from Shechem, and from Shiloh, and from Samaria. They had shaved their beards and torn their clothes, and they had cut themselves. They were carrying offerings and incense in their hand [that is to say, with them], to bring it at the house of Yahweh. 
6 And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meet them, and he was weeping while walking. And when he met them, he said to them: Come to meet Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. 
7 And when they were inside the city, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah killed them, he and the men who were with him, and they threw the corpses of the visitors into a pit. 
8 But there were ten men among the visitors who said to Ishmael, 'Do not kill us, for we have provisions hidden in the field. We have wheat, and barley, and oil, and honey'. So Ishmael refrained from killing them, as he had killed their companions. 
9 Now Ishmael had killed those visitors so that the news of the death of Gedaliah does not spread. And the pit in which Ishmael had thrown all the dead bodies of the men whom he had killed was a pit that had been dug by king Asa, when Asa was afraid of Baasha king of Israel. Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled that pit with the bodies of those whom he had killed. 
10 And Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the people who were in Mizpah. There were the king's daughters, and all the people who remained in Mizpah and whom Nebuzaradan the chief of the guard had entrusted to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. Ishmael the son of Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to go over to the Ammonites. 
11 But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army who were with him, they heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done. 
12 Then they took all their men, and went to fight against Ishmael the son of Nethaniah. And they found him by the great waters that are in Gibeon. 
13 Now when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army who were with him, then they were glad. 
14 And all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah ran and went to Johanan the son of Kareah. 
15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped with eight men from the hand of Johanan, and went to the Ammonites.
16 Then Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the army who were with him, they took all the remnant of the people whom they had rescued them from the hand of Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, those whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah after he had killed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, and Johanan brought them back from Gibeon. Among these captives there were men of war, and women, and children, and eunuchs. 
17 And they departed, and stayed at Geruth Chimham which is near Bethlehem, with the intention of continuing their march to go into Egypt. 
18 For they wanted to get away from the Chaldeans and avoid meeting them. They were in fear because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had killed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam whom the king of Babylon had made governor of the land.
