1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms of the earth that were under his dominion, and all the peoples, were fighting against Jerusalem and against all its cities. 
2 Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah, and tell him: Thus says Yahweh, Behold I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire. 
3 And you will not escape from his hand, for you will surely be taken and given into his hand. Your eyes will look into the eyes of the king of Babylon, and he will speak with you mouth to mouth, and you will go to Babylon. 
4 But listen to the word of Yahweh, O Zedekiah king of Judah. Thus says Yahweh concerning you: You will not die by the sword. 
5 You will die in peace. And incense will be burned for you as it was burned for your fathers the former kings who have been before you. And they will mourn you by saying, 'Oh lord'. For I have spoken this prophecy, says Yahweh. 
6 All these words were spoken by Jeremiah the prophet to Zedekiah king of Judah in Jerusalem. 
7 While the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the other cities of Judah that had not been captured, against Lachish and against Azekah. For these were the fortified cities that were still resisting in the land of Judah. 
8 Now this is the word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after king Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people who were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty to them. 
9 So that each man should set free his manservant and his maidservant, if the servant was a Hebrew or a Hebrewess. And thus no one should hold his fellow Jew in bondage any longer. 
10 And all the princes [leaders] and all the people who had entered into the covenant agreed to set free every one his manservant and his maidservant, so that they should no longer be subjected to bondage. And they obeyed, and let them go. 
11 But afterward they changed their minds, and took back the manservants and the maidservants whom they had freed. And they caused those persons to become slaves again. 
12 Therefore the following word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah from Yahweh. 
13 Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: I made a covenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, and I said to them the following thing. 
14 At the end of seven years, each of you will let go free his brother who is a Hebrew and who has sold himself to you. He will serve you six years, and then you will let him go free from your home. 
15 But [many of] your fathers have not obeyed, and have not wanted to pay attention. And now you had done a thing that is good in my sight in proclaiming liberty, every man to his neighbor, and you had made a covenant before me in the house [temple] that is called by my name. 
16 But you have changed your minds after that, and thus profaned my name. You have taken back each one the manservants and the maidservants whom you had let go free at their pleasure, and you have caused them return to be your manservants and your maidservants. 
17 Therefore thus says Yahweh: You have not obeyed me, to act according to the law and proclaim liberty each one to his brother and each one to his neighbor [And I am not even talking about the fact that you scorned me by breaking an oath that you chose to make in front of me when I had not asked you anything]. Behold I proclaim now a liberty for you, says Yahweh, to die by the sword, or by the pestilence, or by the famine. And I will make them an object of disgust for all the kingdoms of the earth. 
18 I will give the men who have transgressed my covenant, and who have not kept the words of the covenant that they have made before me. They have even immortalized this covenant with a special ceremony. They have cut a calf in two and have walked between the two parts [and it is a thing that I did not ask them to do].
19 The leaders of Judah and the leaders of Jerusalem, and the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the land who have walked between the two parts of the calf. 
20 I will give them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their lives. And their carcasses will be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth. 
21 And I will give Zedekiah king of Judah and his [other] leaders into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of those who seek their lives and into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon who has gone away from you. 
22 Behold I will command and cause them to return to this city [now and not later in the future], says Yahweh. And they will attack it, and take it, and burn it with fire. And I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitants.
