1 The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah on the occasion of the drought. 
2 Judah mourns, and its cities are desolate. They have been heavily thrown to the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem rises.
3 And their nobles have sent their little ones to search for water. And they went to the water wells, and found no water, and came back with their empty vessels. They were confused and ashamed, and they covered their heads. 
4 The ground is cracked, because there has been no rain in the land. The plowmen are confused, and they cover their heads. 
5 Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn, because there is no greenery. 
6 And the wild donkeys stand in the high places, they sniff the wind like jackals. Their eyes languish, because there is no grass. 
7 O Yahweh, act because of your name, despite the fact that our iniquities testify against us. For our rebellions are numerous, we have sinned against you. 
8 You are the hope of Israel, its savior in times of trouble. Why should you be like a stranger in the land, like a traveler who has enters it only to spend the night. 
9 Why should you be like an amazed man, like a mighty man unable to help. For you are in the midst of us, O Yahweh, and we are called by your name. Do not abandon us. 
10 Thus says Yahweh to this people: They have loved to wander, they have not refrained from evil. Therefore Yahweh takes no pleasure in them, and now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins. 
11 And Yahweh said to me: Do not pray for the good of this people. 
12 I will not listen to their supplications when they do a fasting. I will not look at them favorably when they offer burnt offerings. And I will destroy them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
13 Then I replied: Ah, Lord Yahweh. Behold the prophets are saying to the people, 'You will not see the sword, and you will have no famine, and I Yahweh, I will give you a guaranteed peace in this place'. 
14 And Yahweh said to me: Those prophets prophesy lies in my name, I have not sent them. I have not given them orders, and I have not spoken to them. They prophesy to you visions of falsehood, and worthless divination, the deceit of their own hearts. 
15 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, those whom I have not sent and who say: Sword and famine will not be in this land. 
16 Those prophets will perish by the sword and by famine. And those to whom they prophesy will die by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies will be thrown in the streets of Jerusalem. And there will be no one to bury them, both they and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters. For I will pour out their wickedness on them. 
17 As for you, Jeremiah, speak this message to the people of Judah: Tears flow from my eyes night and day without ceasing. For the virgin daughter of my people is destroyed with a great destruction, and with a very grievous wound. 
18 For if I go into the field, behold there are men killed with the sword. And if I enter the city, behold there are men who are consumed by famine. The prophet and the priest both go to a land that they do not know. 
19 Have you utterly rejected Judah. Has your soul loathed Zion. Why do you smite us without there being a healing for us. We hoped for peace, and nothing happy happens. We hoped for a time of healing, and behold there is terror. 
20 We acknowledge, O Yahweh, our wickedness and the iniquity of our fathers. For we have sinned against you. 
21 Do not abhor us. For the sake of your name, do not destroy the throne of your glory. Remember your covenant with us, and do not break it. 
22 Is there among the vanities of the nations any false god who is able to produce rain. Is it the sky that gives the rain by itself. Is it not you, O Yahweh our God. Therefore we hope in you, because you have made all these things.
