1 The word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words, in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah and king of Judah. 
2 Go to the house of the Rechabites, and speak to them, and bring them to the house of Yahweh into one of the rooms [that had been built around the holy place and the most holy place]. And there you will give them wine to drink. 
3 Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites. 
4 And I brought them into the house [temple] of Yahweh, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah. Hanan was a man of God, and the chamber that bore his name in those days was near the chamber of the princes [leaders] of Judah, above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum. Maaseiah was the gatekeeper of the temple. 
5 And I put bottles full of wine and cups in front of the sons of the house of the Rechabites. And I said to them: Drink wine. 
6 But they replied: We will not drink wine, because our father Jonadab the son of Rechab commanded us by saying: You will not drink wine, neither you nor your sons, forever. 
7 And you will not build houses, and you will not sow any seed, and you will not plant vineyard, and you will not possess vineyard. But you will dwell in tents during all your days, so that you may prolong your days in the land where you are sojourners. [For Yahweh the God of Israel has given this land to the children of Jacob as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.] 
8 And we have obeyed the voice of our father Jonadab the son of Rechab, in all that he commanded us. We do not drink wine during all our lives, neither we, nor our wives, nor our sons, nor our daughters. 
9 And we do not build houses for our dwellings, and we do not possess vineyard or field, and we do not sow land. 
10 Therefore we dwell in tents. We have obeyed and done according to all that our father Jonadab commanded us. 
11 And when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came to attack the land of Judah, we said, 'Come, and let us go to Jerusalem in order to escape from the army of the Chaldeans and of the army of Syria'. Therefore we dwell now in Jerusalem. 
12 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in the following words. 
13 Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem the following thing: Are you not going to receive the instruction in order to have the will to obey my words, says Yahweh. 
14 You can see that the words of Jonadab the son of Rechab are performed by his sons to whom he had ordered not to drink wine. They have not drunk wine until this day because they obey the commandment of their father. As for you, I have arisen early and spoken to you but you have not wanted to obey me. 
15 I have sent you all my servants the prophets. I have arisen early [every day] to send them by saying: Turn away now each of you from his evil ways, improve the quality of your deeds and do not go after other gods to serve them. And thus you will stay in the land that I have given to you and to your fathers. But you have not wanted to obey me nor to pay attention. 
16 The sons [descendants] of Jonadab the son of Rechab have kept the commandment of their father, which he commanded them. But this people of Judah has not obeyed me. 
17 Therefore thus says Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Behold I will bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them. For I have spoken to them but they have not wanted to listen, I have called them but they have not answered. 
18 And Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Because you have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according to all that he commanded you. 
19 Therefore thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel: Jonadab the son Rechab will always have a man who will stand before me. [That is to say, among the descendants of Jonadab who will keep the commandments of Jonadab.]
