1 Why should not the times be hidden from the Almighty, since those who know him do not see his days. 
2 Some move the boundaries, and rob the flocks with their food. 
3 The donkey of the orphan is taken away, the ox of the widow is taken as a pledge. 
4 They turn the poor away from the path, so that the poor of the land should hide themselves. 
5 Like the wild donkeys of the wilderness, they go to their business and get up early for prey. And the wilderness provides food for him and his children. 
6 They harvest their provisions in the fields, they gather them from the vineyard of the wicked. 
7 They cause the weak to sleep without clothing, and without covering in the cold. 
8 And these ones are wet by the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for lack of a covering. 
9 For they pluck the orphan from the breast, and take a pledge from the poor. 
10 They cause him to go naked without clothes, and they take the gleaning of the hungry. 
11 And those who make oil in their walls and tread the winepress, the same are thirsty.
12 Men cry out from the city, and the souls of the killed cry out. And God does not attack the guilty. 
13 They are the ones who abhor the light. They do not know its ways, and do not persevere in its paths. 
14 The murderer gets up early and kills the poor and needy, and at night he is like a thief.
15 The eye of the adulterer waits for twilight and says, No one will see me. And he disguises his face. 
16 They force in the dark the houses that they themselves marked during the day. They do not know the light. 
17 But the morning is for them like the shadow of death. If they are known then they are in the terrors of the shadow of death. 
18 They are like a fast object on the waters. Their portion will be cursed on the earth, they will not see the path of the vineyards. 
19 As dry ground and heat consume the waters of snow, the grave of sinners will be thus. 
20 The pitiful man will forget him, and the worm will feel his sweetness, and he will no longer be remembered. The wicked will be broken like a tree. 
21 He who robs the barren and childless woman. The one who does no good to the widow.
22 God also sustains violent men by his power, and when they arise then no one is sure of life.
23 He gives them security and confidence, and he watches over their ways.
24 They are exalted for a period, but then they disappear. And they are brought low like all others, they are destroyed and cut off like the top of an ear of corn. 
25 But if it is not so then where is God. Who will prove me a liar and make my words worthless.
