1 Is there not an appointed time for a man on earth. And are not his days like the days of a hireling. 
2 As the slave longs for the shadow, and as the worker waits for his salary. 
3 So what was given to me as an inheritance are months of misery, and painful nights have been reserved for me. 
4 When I lie down, I say: When will I get up and when will the night end. And I am full of agitations until the dawn of the day. 
5 My body is covered with worms and lumps of dust, my skin cracks and dissolves. 
6 My days are swifter than the weaver's shuttle, and they are spent without hope. 
7 Remember that my life is a breath, and that my eyes will not see happiness again. 
8 The eye that looks at me will no longer see me. Your eyes are on me and I will not be here anymore. 
9 In the same way that the cloud dissipates and departs, the one who goes to the tomb will no longer come. 
10 He will no longer return to his house, and the place where he lived will no longer know him. 
11 Therefore I will not restrain my mouth, but I will speak in the anguish of my spirit. I will meditate in the bitterness of my spirit. 
12 Am I a sea, or a sea monster, for you to keep me under surveillance. 
13 When I say: My bed will comfort me, and will soothe my pain. 
14 It is then that you frighten me with dreams, and terrify me with visions. 
15 This is why my soul chooses rather to be strangled and die, than to be in my bones. 
16 I hate my life. I will not live forever, so leave me alone because my days are vanity. 
17 What is man, so that you do so much for him and set your heart on him. 
18 So that you visit him every morning and test him every moment. 
19 When will you stop looking at me, when will you give me time to swallow my saliva. 
20 If I have sinned, what has it done to you the guardian of men. Why did you set me as a mark for you, so that I may be a burden for myself. 
21 Why do you not forgive my transgression and take away my iniquity. For then I would sleep in the dust and not be found when you seek me.
