1 Then Job spoke in the following words. 
2 I really know that this is so. How can man be compared to God and be found righteous. 
3 If he wanted to argue with the man, then the man would not be able to answer one thing out of a thousand. 
4 To him belong wisdom and omnipotence. Who would resist him with impunity. 
5 He suddenly moves the mountains and they do not feel it, and he overthrows them in his anger. 
6 He shakes the earth to its foundation, and its pillars tremble. 
7 He commands the sun, and it does not rise. He puts a seal on the stars. 
8 Alone, he spreads the heavens. He walks on the heights of the sea. 
9 He created the star Arcturus, and Orion, and the Pleiades, and southern climates. 
10 He does great and unfathomable things, marvels without number. 
11 Lo, he passes by me and I do not see him. He leaves and I do not perceive him. 
12 Behold when he takes prey, who can compel him to restore it. Who will say to him: What are you doing. 
13 God does not withdraw his anger until the supports of pride bow before him. 
14 How much less should I answer him. How should I find my words with him. 
15 For even if I were righteous, I could not answer but would make supplications to my judge. 
16 And if I cry and he answers me, I will not believe that he heard my voice. 
17 For he breaks me with a tempest and multiplies my wounds without cause. 
18 He does not let me catch my breath, but fills me with bitterness. 
19 If we speak of strength, behold he is all-powerful. If we are talking about judgment, who will make me appear. 
20 Even if I am righteous, my mouth will condemn me. Even if I am innocent, he will prove my perversity. 
21 Although I was perfect, I do not know my soul [I only know my spirit]. Therefore I hate my life. 
22 That is a point. And therefore I said, He destroys both the innocent and the guilty. 
23 If at least the scourge should suddenly caused death. But he laughs at the trials of the innocent. 
24 The earth is given into the hands of the wicked, and he covers the faces of the judges who are there. For if it is not him, then who is it. 
25 My days are faster than a courier. They flee without having seen happiness. 
26 They pass like the fastest ships, like the eagle swooping down on its prey. 
27 If I say: I will forget my sufferings, I will repel my sadness and I will take courage. 
28 Then I am afraid of all my sorrows, for I know that you do not consider this behavior acceptable. 
29 I will be found guilty. Why then will I work in vain. 
30 If I wash myself with snow water and my hands become very clean like never before. 
31 Nevertheless, you will plunge me into the pit and my clothes will defile me. 
32 He is not a man like me, so that I may answer him, and so that we may go together in judgment. 
33 There is no arbiter between us, so that he may lay his hands on both of us. 
34 Let him remove his rod from me, and let his terrors no longer trouble me. 
35 Then I will speak and I will not fear it. Otherwise, I am not myself.
