1 And Job continued his parable in the following words. 
2 The living God has taken away my judgment. For the Almighty has put my soul into bitterness. 
3 Nevertheless, as long as my breath is in me and the spirit of God in my nostrils. 
4 My lips will certainly speak no wickedness, and my tongue will utter no deceit. 
5 Far be it from me to justify you. Until I am dead, I will never take away my innocence. 
6 I will keep my righteousness and will not forsake it. During all the days of my life, my heart will not rebuke me. 
7 Let my enemy be like the wicked, and let him who rises against me be like the unjust. 
8 For what hope does the hypocrite who has amassed riches have, when God takes away his soul.
9 Will God hear his cry when trouble comes on him. 
10 Does he delight in the Almighty. Does he address his prayers to God at all times. 
11 I will teach you the ways of God, I will not hide from you the designs of the Almighty.
12 Behold you have all seen it yourselves. Why then do you indulge in vain thoughts. 
13 This is the portion of the wicked before God, and the inheritance of tyrants, which they will receive from the Almighty. 
14 If his children are many then the sword will destroy them, and his descendants will not be satisfied with bread. 
15 His widows will not weep, and those who remain of him will be buried in death. 
16 If he gathers up money like dust, and heaps up clothes like mud. 
17 It is he who heaps it, but it is the righteous who will put it on, and it is the upright man who will divide the money.
18 He builds his house like the moth, and like a lodge that the keeper makes. 
19 He goes to bed rich, but he will not be gathered to his fathers. They open their eyes and he is gone. 
20 Terrors will take him like waters, and a tempest will carry him away by night. 
21 The east wind will carry him away, and he will depart. It will rush him out of his place. 
22 God will mercilessly throw darts at him, and the wicked will want to flee to avoid them. 
23 The men will clap their hands when he falls, and whistle him out of his place.
