1 And Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind in the following words. 
2 Who is he who obscures my plans by words without knowledge. 
3 Gird up now your waist like a valiant man. For I will question you and you will teach me. 
4 Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth. Say it, if you have understanding. 
5 Do you know who fixed its dimensions, or who stretched a measuring line over it.
6 On what are its foundations laid. Who laid its cornerstone.
7 When the morning stars praised me together, and all the children of God rejoiced. 
8 Who shut up the sea with gates, when it gushed and went forth as from the womb.
9 Who covered it with clouds and wrapped it in darkness. 
10 I established my law in it, and I put bars and doors. 
11 And I said: You will come this far, but you will not go beyond. Here the pride of your waves will end. 
12 Have you ordered the morning since the beginning of your days. Have you cause the morning to know its place. 
13 So that it grasps the ends of the earth and shakes the wicked from there. 
14 The earth is transformed like the clay that receives an imprint, and all things stand there like a garment. 
15 And as for the wicked, their light will be taken away and the high arm will be broken. 
16 Have you gone to the bottom of the sea and walked in its depths. 
17 Have the doors of death been revealed to you. Have you seen the gates of the shadow of death. 
18 Have you understood the earth in all its extent. Declare, if you know all these things. 
19 Where is the way to the abode of light. And where does darkness reside. 
20 Can you grasp it at its limits. Do you know the paths that lead to its home. 
21 No doubt you know it, because you were already born at that time and the number of your days is great. 
22 Have you entered the treasures of snow, or have you seen the treasures of hail. 
23 Which I keep in reserve for the time of trouble, for the day of war and battle. 
24 By what way is the light divided and the east wind dispersed over the earth. 
25 Who opened a passage for the rain and the path of lightning and thunder. 
26 To make it rain on a land where there is no man, and in a wilderness where there is no man. 
27 So that it waters a solitary and arid places, and make the tender grass sprout. 
28 Who is the father of the rain. Who gave birth to the drops of dew. 
29 Out of whose womb came the ice. And who gave birth to the frost of the sky. 
30 The waters hide themselves and become like a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen. 
31 Can you restrain the sweet influences of the Pleiades, or unfasten the belt of Orion. 
32 Can you bring out the other constellations at the right times. Can you guide Arcturus with his sons. 
33 Do you know the laws [that govern the objects] of the sky. Do you regulate how they influence the earth. 
34 Do you raise your voice towards the clouds to call torrents of water towards you. 
35 Can you send the lightnings so that they walk and say to you: Lo, here we are. 
36 Who put wisdom in the inner part. Who gave understanding to the mind. 
37 Who can wisely count the clouds, who can make the bottles of heaven stop.
38 The rain turns the dust into mud and the clods of earth stick together. 
39 Who gives her prey to the lioness and satisfies the hunger of the lion cubs. 
40 When they lie down in their place and hide to ambush their prey. 
41 Who provides his food for the raven, when his little ones cry to God and wander for lack of food.
