1 My soul is disgusted with life. I will continue my complaint, I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
2 I say to God, Do not condemn me but show me why you are picking on me. 
3 Does it seem good to you to mistreat, to reject the work of your hands and to show your favor in the counsel of the wicked. 
4 Do you have eyes of flesh. Do you see as a man sees. 
5 Are your days like the days of man, or your years like the years of man. 
6 So that you inquire about my iniquity and seek my sin. 
7 For you know that I am not wicked, and no one can deliver me from your hand. 
8 Your hands have formed and entirely fashioned me. And now you want to destroy me. 
9 Remember, I pray you, that you formed me like clay. Would you like to reduce me to dust again. 
10 Have you not poured me out like milk, and curdled me like cheese. 
11 You clothed me with skin and flesh, and you woven me with bones and tendons. 
12 You have given me life and grace, and your visit has preserved my spirit. 
13 But you have hidden these things in your heart, I know that is what you have resolved within yourself. 
14 If I sin then you will notice me, and you will not justify my iniquity. 
15 If I acted wickedly then woe to me. But if I have acted justly then despite this I will not raise my head, being filled with confusion because I see my affliction. 
16 For if I dare to raise it, then you will pursue me like a lion and you will strike me again with wonders. 
17 You renew your plagues against me. You increase your fury against me, and you assail me with a succession of calamities. 
18 Why did you take me out of my mother's womb. I should have died and no eye should have seen me. 
19 I should be as if I had not existed, being carried from the womb to the grave. 
20 Are not my days few. Therefore stop and leave me alone, so that I can take some comfort. 
21 And then I will go and never return, to the land of darkness and the shadow of death. 
22 In a land, I say, dark as darkness itself, and in the shadow of death, where there is no order and whose light is darkness.
