1 After that, Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. 
2 And Job spoke in the following words. 
3 Let the day in which I was born perish, and the night that said: A male child is conceived. 
4 May that day be transformed into darkness, and may God not seek it from above. And may the light no longer shine on it. 
5 Let darkness and the shadow of death take hold of it. Let clouds dwell above it, and may they make that day as scary as a bitter day. 
6 Let the darkness seize that night. Let it not join the days of the years and be counted no more among the months. 
7 May that night become desolate and joy banished from it. 
8 May it be cursed by those who curse the days, by those who are ready to renew their mourning. 
9 Let the stars of its twilight grow dark. May it wait in vain for the light, and let it not see the dawn of day. 
10 Because it did not close the doors of my mother's womb, nor hide the sorrow from my eyes. 
11 Why did not I die at birth. Why did not I die when I came out of the womb. 
12 Why did I find knees to accommodate me and breasts to nurse me. 
13 I should be in bed now and I should be at peace. I should have slept and rested. 
14 With the kings and the great of the earth, who built mausoleums for themselves. 
15 With the princes who had gold and who filled their homes with silver. 
16 Or why was I not hidden as a premature birth, or as infants who have not seen the light. 
17 There the wicked have ceased their tyranny, and there those who have worked valiantly are at rest. 
18 And there the captives are all at peace and do not hear the voice of the oppressor. 
19 The small and the great are there, and the servant is no longer subject to his master. 
20 Why does he give light to those who are in misery, and life to those who have bitterness in their souls. 
21 Those who hope in vain for death, and who covet it more than a treasure. 
22 Those who would rejoice excessively and would be happy if they found the tomb. 
23 Why is light given to man whose path is hidden and whom God has overwhelmed on every side. 
24 For my sighs come before I eat, and my moans spread like water. 
25 What I fear is what happens to me, what I am scared of is what I get. 
26 I have neither tranquility nor peace nor rest. But trouble has taken hold of me.
