1 Do you know when wild goats give birth. Do you watch the hinds when they give birth. 
2 Can you count the months they accomplish. Do you know when they give birth.
3 They bend down and give birth to their young, and thus chase away their pain.
4 Their young become strong and grow up in the fields. Then they leave and do not return to their mother. 
5 Who freed the wild donkey by freeing it from all bonds. 
6 I have made his dwelling in the wilderness, and his habitations in the salt places. 
7 He laughs at the tumult of the cities, and he does not hear the cries of a master. 
8 He explores the mountains to find his pasture, and looks for every green thing. 
9 Does the wild bull want to be at your service. Will he want to spend the night in your barn. 
10 Do you tie the wild bull with a rope to plow your field. Will he plow the valleys after you. 
11 Will you trust him because his strength is great, and let him do your labor.
12 Will you entrust him to bring your seed home, and gather the grain of your threshing floor.
13 Did you give the beautiful wings to the peacocks, or wings and feathers to the ostrich. 
14 But the ostrich leaves her eggs on the ground and lets them warm up in the dust. 
15 She forgets that a foot can crush them or that a beast of the field can break them. 
16 She is harsh towards her young ones as if they were not hers. She is not afraid that they will die and that her childbirth had been in vain. 
17 For God has deprived her of wisdom, and has not given her understanding. 
18 And when she gets up and takes her run, she laughs at the horse and its rider because she is faster. 
19 Did you give the horse strength. Did you cover his neck with a flowing mane.
20 Was it you who made him capable of jumping like a grasshopper. Its proud neighing causes fear. 
21 He digs in the valley and rejoices in his strength. He goes out to meet the most armed man. 
22 He mocks fear. He is not afraid and does not turn away from the sword. 
23 The quiver rattles on him, with the glittering spear and the shield.
24 He runs on the ground with ferocity and rage, he cannot contain himself at the sound of the trumpet. 
25 When the trumpet sounds, he says: Forward. And from afar he smells the battle by the thundering voice of the captains and the cries of war. 
26 Is it through your wisdom that the hawk takes flight and spreads his wings towards the south. 
27 Is it by your command that the eagle rises and places his nest on the heights. 
28 It is among the rocks that she dwells and sets her home. On the tops of the rocks, and on the towers. 
29 From there she spies on the prey and her eyes behold it in the distance. 
30 Her little ones also suck blood. And where there are dead bodies, she is there.
