1 Behold my eye has seen all this, and my ear has heard and understood it. 
2 What you know, I know too. I am not inferior to you. 
3 But I want to speak to the Almighty, I want to plead my case before God. 
4 Because you only imagine lies, you are all doctors of nothingness. 
5 Why did you not keep quiet. You would have been considered wise. 
6 Now listen to my defense and pay attention to the response of my lips. 
7 Will you say in favor of God what is unjust. Will you speak deceitfully to support him. 
8 Will you show partiality for him, do you want to plead for God. 
9 If he probes you then will he approve of you. Or will you deceive him as one deceives a man. 
10 He will certainly condemn you when you only act in secret out of consideration for his person.
11 Should not the majesty of his person make you afraid, should you not fear all his terrors. 
12 Your sentences are sentences of ashes, and your entrenchments are mud entrenchments. 
13 Hold your tongue in my presence so that I may speak, and may what I deserve come to me. 
14 Why should I take my flesh between my teeth. I will instead expose my life. 
15 Behold he will kill me, I have nothing to hope for. But before him I will defend my conduct. 
16 This act itself can serve for my salvation, because the hypocrite will not dare to appear in his presence. 
17 Listen diligently to my words and record my words. 
18 Behold I am ready to plead my case, I know that I am righteous. 
19 Will anyone argue against me. For if I keep quiet now then it is like I am dead. 
20 Just grant me two things, and I will not hide from your face. 
21 Take your hand from me, and frighten me no more with your terrors. 
22 Then you will call me and I will answer, or I will speak and you will answer me. 
23 How many are my iniquities and my sins. Let me know my transgressions and sins. 
24 Why do you hide your face and take me for your enemy. 
25 Do you want to hit a restless leaf. Do you want to pursue a dry grass. 
26 For you inflict bitter suffering on me and cause me to inherit the iniquities of my youth. 
27 You restrict my movements, and you look carefully at all my paths, and you make marks under the heels of my feet. 
28 And my body rots like a garment devoured by moths.
