1 I made a covenant with my eyes, and I could not lust after a virgin.
2 For what is the portion of God from above, and the inheritance of the Almighty from on high.
3 Is not destruction for the wicked, and strange punishment for the workers of iniquity.
4 Has not God known my ways. Did he not count all my steps. 
5 If anyone thinks that I have walked in falseness, or that my foot hastened to deceive. 
6 Then let God weigh me in the right balance, and he will recognize my integrity. 
7 If my step has strayed from the right path, or if my heart has followed my eyes, or if any blot has clung to my hands. 
8 Then let another reap what I have sown. Yes, let the produce of my field be uprooted. 
9 If my heart has been enticed by a woman, or if I was spying on my neighbor's door. 
10 Then let my wife turn the millstone for another man, and let other men dishonor her. 
11 For it is wickedness and an iniquity which must be condemned. 
12 Yes, it is a fire that will devour to destruction and uproot all my wealth. 
13 If I disregarded the rights of my manservant or my maidservant when they were in dispute with me. 
14 What will I do then when God arises. What will I answer and when he visit me. 
15 Did not the one who created me in my mother's womb create him. Did not the same God form us in the womb. 
16 If I have refused the poor what they asked, or if I have made the widow's eyes languish. 
17 Or if I ate my morsel alone and the fatherless did not eat of it. 
18 For from my youth the fatherless grew up with me as with a father, and from my mother's womb I was a guide to the widow. 
19 If I saw someone perish for lack of clothes, or a poor person without covering.
20 And if his waist did not bless me because he was warmed with the fleece of my sheep. 
21 If I raised my hand against the fatherless because I felt the support of the judges. 
22 Then let my arm fall from my shoulder and my arm be broken to the bone. 
23 For the punishment of God was frightening to me, and I could not do such a thing for his majesty's sake. 
24 If I said to gold, You are my hope. Or if I trusted in gold. 
25 If I have rejoiced because my riches were great, or because my hand had obtained much.
26 If I honored the sun when it shone or the moon walking in its brightness. 
27 If my heart flattered me in secret, or if my mouth kissed my hand. 
28 This too would have been an iniquity to condemn, for I would have denied the God above. 
29 I never rejoiced at the destruction of the one who hated me, and I never felt joy when misfortune happened to him. 
30 I also did not let my mouth sin by wishing a curse to his soul. 
31 The people in my tent never said, Who will give us of his meat because we are not satisfied. 
32 The stranger did not stay in the street, but I opened my doors to the one who passed by the way. 
33 I have never hidden my transgressions like men by locking my iniquities in my bosom. 
34 For [being strengthened by the fear of my God] I was not afraid of the multitude. The fear of being despised by families did not make me stay away without daring to go through the door.
35 Oh where is the one who will listen to me. Here is my signed defense, and may the Almighty answer me. Who will give me the complaint written by my opponent. 
36 I would surely carry these writings on my shoulder and attach them to my forehead like a crown. 
37 I would go to him as to a prince, and I would explain to him all my actions that occurred during the period considered by his complaint. 
38 If my land cries out against me and if its furrows weep together. 
39 If I have eaten of its products without paying the servants who did the work, or if I have grieved the souls of its former masters. 
40 Then let the thorns grow instead of wheat, and the tares grow instead of barley. End of Job’s words.
