1 Now therefore, I pray you Job, hear my speech. Give ear to all my words. 
2 Behold I open my mouth, and my tongue moves in my mouth. 
3 My words are in the uprightness of my heart therefore my lips will speak pure knowledge. 
4 The spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gave me life.
5 If you can answer me then get ready and stand before me. 
6 In the sight of God, I am your fellow man. I also was formed from mud. 
7 Therefore you will not be frightened by my terrors, and the pressure of my hand [the insistence of my words] will not be heavy on you. 
8 You have indeed spoken in my ears, and I have heard the voice of your words saying the following things. 
9 I am pure, and I am sinless, and I am innocent, and there is no iniquity in me. 
10 And God finds reasons to hate me. He treats me like his enemy. 
11 He places my feet in the vineyards and examines all my paths. 
12 I will answer you that in this thing you are not right, because God is greater than man. 
13 Why do you argue with him, since he does not give an account of all his actions. 
14 For God sometimes speaks one way, and sometimes another, and man pays no attention to it. 
15 He also speaks in dreams and in night visions, when men abandon themselves to deep sleep and sleep on their beds. 
16 Then he opens the ears of men and seals his corrections. 
17 To turn man away from evil and to break his pride. 
18 To protect his soul from the pit and his life from the blows of the sword. 
19 He is also struck with sadness on his bed, and with continual pain in his bones. 
20 So that his life causes him to abhor bread, and his soul hates exquisite meat [for man does not live by food alone]. 
21 His flesh is consumed and disappears, and his bones which were not visible are exposed. 
22 And his soul draws near to the pit, and his life to the angels of death. 
23 But if there is an intercessor angel for him, one among the thousand who announce to man the path that he must follow. 
24 Then God will have mercy on him and say, Deliver him so that he does not go down into the pit, for I have found a ransom. 
25 And his flesh becomes as fresh as that of a child, and he returns as in the days of his youth. 
26 And he will pray to God, and God will be favorable to him. And he will see the face of God with joy, for God will restore to man his righteousness. 
27 And he will sing before men and say, I have sinned and perverted righteousness, and it has not benefited me. 
28 And God has delivered my soul from entering the pit, and my life is flourishing in the light. 
29 Lo, it is all that God does with man, two times, three times. 
30 To bring back his soul from the pit, and illuminate it with the light of the living. 
31 Pay attention, O Job, and listen to me. Keep silent, and I will speak. 
32 If you have anything to say then speak and answer me, for I desire to justify you. 
33 But if you have nothing to say then listen to me. Be silent and I will teach you wisdom.
