1 And Job spoke in the following words. 
2 How long will you vex my soul and torment me with words.
3 You have already outraged me ten times, and you are not ashamed. You are impudent towards me. 
4 And even if I had indeed made a mistake, then my mistake would stay with me. 
5 Do you think that you are treating me haughtily. Do you think to have proved that I am guilty. 
6 Know now that it is God who pursues me, and wraps me in his net.
7 Behold I cry out for violence, but I have no answer. I cry, but there is no justice. 
8 He has walled up my way so that I cannot depart from it, and he has put darkness in my paths. 
9 He has stripped me of my honor and removed the crown from my head. 
10 He has destroyed me on all sides and I am turning off. And he took away my hope like one uproots a tree.
11 And he has kindled his anger against me, and he considers me one of his enemies. 
12 His armies gathered together and came to me, and encamped around my tabernacle. 
13 He has taken away my brothers, and my friends have turned away from me. 
14 My neighbors have abandoned me, and my relatives have forgotten me. 
15 Those who dwell in my house and my servants consider me a stranger. I am nothing more than a stranger in their eyes. 
16 I call my servant and he does not answer. I beseech him with my mouth but it is in vain. 
17 My breath is a burden to my wife, even when I tell her about the children of my own body. 
18 The wicked also despised me and when I arose, they spoke against me. 
19 All my close friends hate me, and the ones I loved are turning against me. 
20 My bones are attached to my skin and flesh, and all I have left is the skin of my teeth. 
21 Have pity on me, have pity on me, you my friends. For the hand of God has touched me. 
22 Why do you persecute me like God does. Why are you insatiable for my flesh. 
23 Oh, I want my words written now. Oh, I want them written in a book. 
24 And engraved with an iron chisel in lead, or in stone forever. 
25 For I am sure that my redeemer is alive, and that he will be the last on earth. 
26 And after my skin and this body are destroyed, then without my flesh I will see God. 
27 I will see him myself. My eyes will see him, and not as a stranger. My soul burns in me in this expectation. 
28 And you will say, Why did we persecute him. For the justice of my cause will be recognized. 
29 Fear the sword, for the sword will avenge wickedness so that you may know that there is a judgment.
