1 And Elihu continued in the following words.
2 Wait a little and I will continue. For I still have words for the cause of God.
3 I will take my reasons from far and wide, and I will prove the righteousness of my creator. 
4 You can be sure that my speeches are not lies because my emotions are sincere. 
5 Behold God is mighty and despises no man. He is mighty by the strength of his understanding. 
6 He does not preserve the lives of the wicked, and he gives judgment to the afflicted. 
7 He does not turn his eyes away from the righteous, but they are with kings on the throne where he places them forever. Thus they are exalted. 
8 And if they are chained and tied with the cords of affliction. 
9 Then he will show them their works and their transgressions, because they have been proud. 
10 He also opens their ears to instruction, and commands them to turn from iniquity. 
11 If they obey and serve him, then their days will be in prosperity and their years in joy. 
12 But if they do not obey then they will pass by the sword and perish without knowledge. 
13 But the hypocrites of the heart increase his anger, for they do not invoke him when he binds them. 
14 Their souls die in youth, and their lives are among the unclean. 
15 He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ears in distress. 
16 Indeed, he is moving you away from distress to an open and quiet place, with rich food on your table. 
17 But if you defend yourself as an ungodly man, then punishment is inseparable from your cause. 
18 Do not let irritation lead you to mockery, and do not let the greatness of the ransom weaken your faith. 
19 Would your cries be enough to get you out of the anguish, or even all the strength you could deploy. 
20 Do not desire the night, for from there also he destroys the people at their place. 
21 Be careful not to abandon yourself to evil, because suffering predisposes you to it. 
22 God is great by his power. Who can teach like him. 
23 Who prescribes his ways to him. Who can change something by saying to him, You have done wickedly. 
24 Remember to extol his works, which all men contemplate. 
25 Every man contemplates them, everyone sees them from afar. 
26 Behold God is great, but his greatness escapes us. The number of his years is unsearchable. 
27 He attracts the drops of water to himself. He reduces them to vapor and forms rain. 
28 And the clouds let it flow. They spread it over the crowd of men. 
29 Who can understand the divisions of the clouds and the thunders of his tabernacle [his habitation in the sky and more generally everywhere in the universe]. 
30 Behold he spreads his light on the sky and covers the bottom of the sea. 
31 By these means he judges the peoples, and he gives food in abundance. 
32 He takes the light in his hand, and directs it where he wants. 
33 The sound announces his storm, and even the cattle knows that it is approaching. 
