1 And Elihu continued in the following words. 
2 Wise men, listen to my words. Give me your ear, you who have knowledge. 
3 For the ear discerns words, as the mouth tastes meat. 
4 Let us seek judgment among us, and let us know among ourselves what is good. 
5 For Job has said: I am righteous, and God withholds my judgment. 
6 Should I lie and not seek justice. For my wound is painful while I am without sin.
7 What man is like Job, who drinks contempt like water. 
8 And who joins himself to those who commit iniquity for this reason, and walks with the wicked. 
9 For he has said, A man who delights in God is not treated differently by his creator. 
10 Therefore listen to me, men of understanding. There is no wickedness in God, the Almighty does not commit iniquity. 
11 For he will reward a man according to his work, and will cause each man to find according to his way. 
12 And God will certainly not do evil. The Almighty will not pervert judgment. 
13 Who asked him to rule the earth. Who entrusted him with the universe.
14 If he only thought of himself, and if he withdrew his spirit and his breath. 
15 Then all flesh would suddenly perish and man would return to dust. 
16 If you have understanding then listen to this and give ear to the voice of my words. 
17 Can he who rules over all that exists be an enemy of justice. Will you condemn the one who is most fair. 
18 Who is the one who judges the wickedness of kings and the iniquity of princes. 
19 Who does not care about the appearance of the great, and does not distinguish the rich from the poor because they are all the work of his hands. 
20 In an instant they lose their lives [in different ways]. And also, a people is troubled and perishes in the middle of the night, or a mighty disappears without the hand of any man. 
21 For God sees the conduct of everyone, and he looks at the steps of each person. 
22 Those who commit iniquity cannot hide themselves from him, not even in darkness or in the shadow of death. 
23 God does not need to observe for a long time before he enters into judgment with a man. 
24 He breaks the great without information, and he puts others in their place. 
25 For he knows their works. He overthrows some of them during the night, and they are destroyed. 
26 He strikes them as ungodly in front of all eyes.
27 Because they turned away from him and would not consider all his ways. 
28 They have caused the voice of the poor to come to him, and he have heard the cry of the afflicted.  
29 If he gives rest then who will cause trouble. And if he hides his face then who can behold him. He treats either a nation or a man in the same way. 
30 So that the hypocrite no longer dominates and is no longer a trap for the people. 
31 If anyone says to God, I am guilty and I will sin no more. 
32 [And] Teach me what I do not see. And if I have done evil then I will do no more. 
33 Do you think that God will then treat you according to your own standards while rejecting his own. You have to choose and not me. Now say what you know. 
34 Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man listen to me.
35 Job has spoken without knowledge, and his words were not according to wisdom. 
36 May he continue to be tested, since he reacts like the wicked. 
37 For he adds rebellion to his sin. He claps his hands among us and multiplies his words against God.
