1 There is surely a mine for silver, and for gold a place from which it is extracted to refine it. 
2 Iron comes from dust, and the stone is melted to produce brass.
3 Man makes the darkness cease. He explores, even in the deepest places, the stones hidden in darkness and in the shadow of death. 
4 They dig deep into the ground, far from where people live, where no one else has gone before. And there they work while hanging from ropes.
5 Bread comes from the upper part of the earth, and underneath its innards are disturbed as by fire. 
6 Gold powder is found in this part and its stones contain sapphire. 
7 No bird of prey knows this way, nor has the eye of eagles seen it. 
8 The proud beasts have not trodden it, neither has the fierce lion passed through it. 
9 Man puts his hand on the rock and he overturns the mountains from the root. 
10 He makes trenches among the rocks, and his eye contemplates all that is precious. 
11 He stops the flow of waters, and he brings to light what is hidden. 
12 But where is wisdom, and where is the place of understanding. 
13 Man does not know their price, for it is not found in the land of the living. 
14 The depths of the earth says, It is not in me. And the sea also says, It is not with me. 
15 It is not given in exchange of gold, it cannot be purchased by gatherings of money. 
16 It cannot be valued by the weight of the gold of Ophir, nor by the precious onyx, nor by the sapphire. 
17 It cannot be compared to gold or crystal, it cannot be exchanged for a fine gold plate. 
18 No mention will be made of coral or oysters, for wisdom is more precious than pearls. 
19 The topaz of Ethiopia is not its equal, neither can it be valued with pure gold. 
20 So where does wisdom come from, and where is the place of understanding.
21 Since it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and hidden from the birds of the sky. 
22 Destruction and death say, We have heard its fame with our ears. 
23 But God knows its way and he knows its dwelling place. 
24 For he beholds the ends of the world and sees everything under the heaven.
25 To measure the weight of the winds and fix the measurements of the waters.
26 When he gave laws to the rain, and traced the path of the lightning of thunder. 
27 Then he saw wisdom and counted it. He prepared it and considered it also. 
28 And he said to man: Behold the fear of the Lord is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding.
