1 And Yahweh continued to speak to Job in the following words.
2 Are all these facts for learning to argue with the Almighty. The one who reproaches God, let him answer. 
3 And Job answered Yahweh in the following words.
4 Behold I am vile. What will I answer you. I will put my hand on my mouth.
5 I have spoken once but I will not answer again. Yes twice, but I will not go any further. 
6 And Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind in the following words. 
7 Gird up now your waist like a valiant man. For I will question you and you will teach me. 
8 Will you destroy even my justice. Will you condemn me in order to be justified. 
9 Do you have an arm like that of God, or a thunderous voice like his. 
10 Adorn yourself now with magnificence and dignity, and dress yourself with honor and glory.
11 Propagate the waves of your anger. And look at all those who are proud, and lower them. 
12 Look at every arrogant person and bring him down. And destroy the wicked in their place.
13 Hide them all together in the dust, and enclose their faces in darkness. 
14 Then I will worship the power of your right hand. 
15 Think of the hippopotamus, to whom I gave life as I did of you. He eats grass like an ox. 
16 Behold now, his strength is in his loins and his vigor in the muscles of his belly. 
17 When he takes pleasure, his tail is like a cedar. The sinews of his testicles are intertwined. 
18 His bones are like bars of brass, and his small bones are like bars of iron. 
19 He is the chief of the works of God, but he who created him will draw his sword against him [the young adult]. 
20 The mountains give him grass, where all the beasts of the field play. 
21 But he lies down under the trees, and in the cover of reeds and marshes. 
22 The trees cover him with their shade. The willows of the river surround him. 
23 Behold he ravages the river and he makes no haste. He is confident that he can bring the Jordan into his mouth. 
24 He takes it with his eyes and runs his nose through everything that meets him.
