1 And these three men stopped answering Job, for he considered himself righteous. 
2 Then was kindled the anger of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram. His anger, I say, was kindled against Job because he justified himself more than God. 
3 And his anger was kindled against his three friends because they could not find an answer and nevertheless they condemned Job [for a transgression that they are unable to specify]. 
4 Elihu had waited for this moment to speak to Job because they were older than him. 
5 And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his anger was kindled. 
6 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: I am young and you are old, therefore I restrained myself and was afraid to show you my opinion.  
7 For I said to myself: The days will speak, and the multitude of years will teach wisdom. 
8 However, the breath of the Almighty is in man but understanding comes from the spirit. 
9 It is not age that brings wisdom. It is not old age that makes someone capable to judge. 
10 Therefore I say: Listen, and I also will present my thoughts. 
11 Behold I have waited for your words, and listened to your knowledge, as you sought reasons. 
12 I gave you all my attention and lo, none of you comforted Job or answered his words [without reproaching him for having committed an unknown sin]. 
13 Be careful not to say in yourself: We have wisdom. For God overthrew him, and not a man. 
14 But he did not address his words to me, that is why I will not answer him in the same way as you [I will not focus on his particular case]. 
15 They are surprised and no longer respond. They do not have a word to say. 
16 I waited and they said nothing, but they stood still and did not respond again. 
17 And I want to respond as well. I want to express my opinion. 
18 For I am full of words, and the spirit that is in me is pressing me. 
19 My interior is like a wine that has no outlet, and like new wineskins about to burst. 
20 Therefore I will speak to breathe easily. I will open my lips and I will answer. 
21 I will have no respect for appearance, and I will not flatter anyone. 
22 For I must not flatter, lest my maker suddenly take me away.
