1 Can you catch the crocodile with a fishhook [according to its manufacture to date], or grab his tongue with a rope.
2 Can you put a rope through his nose or a hook through his jaw. 
3 Will he press you with supplications. Will he speak to you in a gentle voice.
4 Will he make a covenant with you to become your servant forever. 
5 Will you play with him like with a bird. Will you attach him to amuse your young daughters.
6 Will the fishermen traffic with him. Will they share him with the merchants. 
7 Will you cover his skin with darts, and his head with fish spears. 
8 Raise your hand against him. Then you will remember the battle and never do it again. 
9 Behold his hope is vain. Is not one devastated by his appearance alone. 
10 No one is bold enough to excite him. Who is he who can stand before me.
11 Who has given to me first, so that I should return it to him. Everything under the heaven belongs to me. 
12 I will not keep silence concerning his members and his strength and the beauty of his structure. 
13 Who will lift up his garment. Who will penetrate between his jaws. 
14 Who will open the doors of his mouth. Around his teeth lives terror. 
15 His magnificent and strong shields are united together as by a seal. 
16 They hold each other close, and the air cannot pass between them. 
17 One is joined to another. They stick together, so that they cannot be sundered. 
18 His sneezing brings forth light, and his eyes shine like the light of dawn.
19 Flames burst from his mouth and sparks of fire escape.
20 From his nostrils comes smoke, like from a boiling pot or cauldron.
21 His breath makes the coals burn, because a flame comes from his mouth. 
22 In his neck lies strength, and terror dances before him.
23 The members of his body are joined. They are strong in themselves and cannot be moved. 
24 His heart is as strong as a stone and as hard as the bottom millstone. 
25 When he rises, the most valiant are afraid and they faint in themselves. 
26 It is in vain that one attacks him with the sword [according to its manufacture to date]. The spear and the dart and the breastplate are of no use. 
27 He regards iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood. 
28 The archer cannot scare him away. The stones of the slingshot are like straw to him. 
29 The darts are considered straw, and he laughs at the shaking of the spear. 
30 Under his belly are like sharp potsherds. He leaves marks in the mud like sharp things. 
31 He makes the depths boil like a pot, and he makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
32 When he swims, he makes the path to shine after him and the depth resembles the hair of an old man. 
33 There is no one like him on earth. He is made without fear. 
34 He looks down on everything that is high. He is the king of all the children of pride.
