1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered in the following words. 
2 Should the wise man speak the words of the wind. Should he fill his faith with the east wind. 
3 Is it with useless words that he defends himself. Is it through speeches that serve no purpose. 
4 You even destroy the fear of God, you hinder devotion to God. 
5 For your mouth declares your iniquity, since you have chosen the tongue of the crafty. 
6 It is not me, but your own mouth that condemns you. It is your lips that testify against you. 
7 Were you the first man to be born. Were you made before the hills. 
8 Have you received the confidences of God. Do you limit wisdom to yourself. 
9 What do you know that we do not know. What knowledge do you have that we do not have. 
10 Among us there are both the gray haired and the very old man, much older than your father. 
11 Are the consolations of God small to you. Does this thing seem strange to you. 
12 Why does your heart take you away. What does this way of looking mean. 
13 How is it that you speak to God without restraint and cause such words to come out of your mouth. 
14 Can a man be considered pure. Can he who is born of a woman be considered righteous. 
15 Behold he found no steadfastness in his saints, and the heavens are not clean in his sight. 
16 And since man drinks iniquity like water, is he not a more defiled and abominable creature. 
17 I will talk to you. Listen to me, and I will declare what I have seen. 
18 What the wise men said, as they heard from their fathers. For they did not keep the secret. 
19 To them alone was the land given, and no stranger has prolonged his days among them. 
20 The wicked spend in anguish all the days of his life, and the number of years is hidden from the tyrant. 
21 A sound of fear is in his ears, and in the midst of peace the destroyer will fall on him. 
22 He does not hope to escape the darkness, because he sees the sword that threatens him. 
23 He runs backwards and forwards to look for bread, and he knows that the day of darkness awaits him. 
24 Distress and anguish will make him fear. They will prevail against him like a king ready for battle. 
25 For he stretched out his hand against God and defied the Almighty. 
26 Therefore God will run on him, up to his neck and against the thickest part of his shield. 
27 Because he covered his face with his fat and accumulated fat on his waist. 
28 .
29 .
30 He will never escape the darkness. The flame will consume his branches, and he will be destroyed by the breath of the mouth of God. 
31 He does not believe that he wanders in vanity, therefore vanity will be his reward. 
32 His branch will not be green, but will be cut before his day. 
33 He will be like a vine stripped of its still green fruit, like an olive tree whose flowers have fallen. 
34 For the congregation of hypocrites will be desolate. And fire will devour the tent of the corrupt man. 
35 They conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity, and their bellies prepare deception.
