1 And Eliphaz the Temanite spoke in the following words. 
2 Can a man generate benefits for God like the one who is wise generates benefits for himself.
3 Is it something for the Almighty when you are righteous. Or is it profitable for him when you are upright.
4 Is it for fear of you that he accuses you or that he calls you in judgment. 
5 Is not your wickedness large, and are not your iniquities innumerable.
6 For you have considered your brother’s oath as nothing, and have stripped the naked of his clothes. 
7 You did not give water to those who were thirsty, and you withheld the bread of the hungry. 
8 The earth was possessed by the powerful man, and the authoritarian one lived on it. 
9 You have sent away the widows who had empty hands, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken. 
10 Therefore the traps are all around you, and a sudden fear will trouble you. 
11 The darkness will come to you so that you will not see, and the abundance of waters will cover you. 
12 Is not God on the height of heaven. Look at the distant stars and see how high they are. 
13 But you say: How should God know, can he judge through the dark cloud. 
14 The clouds hide things from him, so that he cannot see. And he only walks in the circle of the heaven. 
15 Have you marked the ways of the world, where the wicked should walk. 
16 Which were traced before the time, whose foundation was like an overflowing river. 
17 They say to God, Get away from us. What can the Almighty do for us.
18 However he fills their houses with good things. Nevertheless, let the counsel of the wicked be away from me. 
19 The righteous will witness their fall and rejoice, and the innocent will pity them. 
20 The fire will devour the rest of them, but our riches are hidden. 
21 Therefore, I pray you, cling to God and make peace. This way you will enjoy happiness. 
22 Receive, I pray you, the instructions from his mouth. And put his words in your heart. 
23 You will be restored if you return to the Almighty and remove the iniquity from your tent. 
24 Throw the gold into the dust, and the gold of Ophir among the stones of the rivers. 
25 And the Almighty will be your gold, and your money, and your treasure. 
26 And then you will rejoice in the Almighty, and you will lift up your face to God. 
27 You will pray to him and he will hear you, and you will fulfill your vows. 
28 And he will establish for you all that you undertake, and the light will shine on your ways. 
29 When they overthrow you, you will say: There is lifting up. For God will save the humble person.
30 The innocent will deliver the land, which will be preserved by the purity of your hands.
