1 Then Job spoke in the following words. 
2 I have frequently heard such things. You are all pathetic comforters. 
3 Will there be no end to the words of the wind. Why this irritation in your answers. 
4 If you were in my place then I also could speak like you do. I could overwhelm you with words and shake my head before you. 
5 But that is not my way of doing things. On the contrary, I would strengthen you with my mouth, and I would move my lips to assuage your grief. 
6 When I speak now, it cannot assuage my sorrow. But if I keep quiet then how will that rescue me. 
7 Now he has exhausted me. O God, you have ravaged my whole house. 
8 And you have filled me with wrinkles, which is a testimony against me. And my thinness has risen in me and has reached my face. 
9 He tore me apart in his anger and pursues me. He grinds his teeth against me, my enemy has sharpened his eyes against me. 
10 They have opened their mouths to devour me, and smitten me on the cheek with reproach. They gather themselves together against me.
11 God delivered me to the unrighteous and brought me out of the way by the hands of the wicked. 
12 I was calm and he shook me. He grabbed me by the neck and broke me, and established me as a mark for himself. 
13 His archers surround me. He cuts my waist without mercy, and he pours my bile on the ground. 
14 He continually breaks me, breach after breach. He runs towards me like a giant. 
15 I sewed a bag on my skin, I rolled my head in the dust.
16 My face is withered by tears, and the shadow of death is on my eyelids. 
17 And yet there is no wickedness in my hands, and my prayer is pure. 
18 O earth, do not cover my blood and let my cries spread without limits. 
19 Lo, now my witness is in the heaven, and my record is on high. 
20 My friends speak eloquently against me, but my eyes shed tears towards God. 
21 Oh, if a man could plead with God as a man with his neighbor. 
22 For the number of my years is coming to an end, and I will go by a path from which I will not return.
