1 And Job continued his parable in the following words. 
2 Oh, I wish I were like in the old months, like in the days when God watched over me. 
3 When his light shone on my head, and when by his light I walked through the darkness. 
4 As I was in the days of my strength, when God was watching like a friend over my tent. 
5 When the Almighty was still with me, and my children around me. 
6 When I used to wash my feet with butter, and the rock used to pour out streams of oil for me. 
7 When I used to go out to the gate or even to the judgment seat, and I had a seat prepared for me on the street. 
8 In those days the young men hid themselves when they saw me, and the old men got up and stood straight. 
9 And the princes used to stop their speeches and to put their hands to their mouths. 
10 And the voices of the nobles were hushed, and their tongue clung to their palates. 
11 For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me. And when the eye saw me, then it testified to me. 
12 For I delivered the poor who cried, and the fatherless, and the one who had no one to help him. 
13 The blessing of the one who was ready to perish came on me, and I rejoiced the widow’s heart. 
14 I put on righteousness and it covered me. My judgment was like a robe and a crown. 
15 I was the eye of the blind and the foot of the lame. 
16 I was the father of the wretched, and I examined the cause of the unknown. 
17 And I broke the jaws of the unjust, and snatched the prey from his teeth. 
18 That is why I said, I will die in my nest and I will multiply my days like sand. 
19 For the water penetrated into my roots, and the dew rested on my branch. 
20 My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand. 
21 The men were listening me and were waiting for this, and were silent at my advice. 
22 At that time, no one responded to my speeches and my words were a beneficial dew for everyone. 
23 And they waited for me as for rain, and they opened their mouths as for the latter rain. 
24 I smiled at them when they lost courage, and the serenity of my face could not be chased away. 
25 I loved to go to them, and I sat as their leader. I was like a king in the midst of a troop, and like a comforter to the afflicted.
