1 My heart is trembling and moving away from its place. 
2 Hear, oh, hear the sound of his voice, and the thunder that comes out of his mouth. 
3 He rolls it through all the expanse of the sky, and its lightning shines to the ends of the earth. 
4 Then a roar breaks out. He thunders with the voice of his majesty. And he does not restrain the lightning when his voice is heard. 
5 God thunders marvellously with his voice, and he does great things that we do not understand. 
6 He said to the snow: Fall to the earth. Likewise, he commands the little rain and the great rain.
7 He encloses every man by the power of these phenomena, so that all may know his work. 
8 At that moment, the wild beasts enter the den and stay in their place. 
9 Whirlwinds come from the south, and the cold winds come from the north. 
10 By his breath God produces ice, and it reduces the space where the waters spread. 
11 He fills the clouds with water and scatters his lightning through them. 
12 Their evolutions vary according to his designs, in order to accomplish everything he commands them on the face of the earth. 
13 Whether for punishment as with a flood, or for the flourishing of a land that he loves, or out of mercy, he uses the clouds for these purposes. 
14 Pay attention to these things, O Job. Consider again the wondrous works of God. 
15 Do you know when God arranges them and makes the light of his cloud shine. 
16 Do you understand the swaying of the clouds, and the wondrous works of him whose knowledge is perfect. 
17 Or how are your clothes warm, when he calms the earth by the south wind. 
18 Can you extend the sky, which is strong like a cast iron mirror. 
19 Teach us what to say to God, for we are too ignorant to speak to him properly. 
20 Will someone make an announcement to God when I have something to say. If this is the case then who is this person who desires his own destruction. 
21 If the wind blows away the clouds and the sky is returned to its purity, then we here cannot freely look at the sun when it is brightest. 
22 And its brightness is like that of gold for those who are in the north. But praise is for the majesty of God. 
23 We cannot probe the Almighty. He is excellent in power and in judgment, and abundant in righteousness. He does not act unfairly. 
24 Therefore let men fear him, for he will not consider any of those who are wise according to their own criteria.
