1 And now I am the laughing stock of those younger than me, of those whose fathers I disdained to place among the dogs of my flock. 
2 For what good would the strength of their hands have availed me before God, since they cannot reach old age because of their wickedness. 
3 Drained by poverty and hunger, they flee to arid places that have been abandoned and deserted for a long time. 
4 They pull up the wild herbs near the bushes, and their only bread is the root of the broom. 
5 They are driven out of the midst of men who shout at them as at thieves. 
6 This is why they live in the crevices of rivers, in holes in the earth and rocks. 
7 They roar among the bushes and gather themselves under the thistles. 
8 Vile and despised beings, they are driven out of the country. 
9 And now I am the subject of their songs and a proverb to them. 
10 They abhor me, and run away from me, and do not hesitate to spit in my face. 
11 Because God turned his face and afflicted me, so they gave up all restraint before me. 
12 These wretches arise to my right hand. They push my feet and walk on me as on the paths of their destruction. 
13 They destroy my paths and they take pleasure in my calamities, the same ones who have no help. 
14 They arrive as if by a wide breach, and they rush under the cracks. 
15 The terrors besiege me. They chase my soul like the wind, and my health vanishes like a cloud. 
16 And now my soul pours into me. The days of the affliction seized me. 
17 My bones are pierced in me at night and my tendons do not rest. 
18 My garment loses its shape by the violence of evil, which binds me like the collar of my coat. 
19 God threw me into the mud, and I have become like dust and ashes. 
20 When I cry out to you, you do not answer me. And you do not look at me when I get up. 
21 You become cruel to me, and you fight me with the strength of your hand. 
22 You took me in your hand and caused me to be carried away by the winds, and you destroyed my strength. 
23 Surely I know that you will bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all the living. 
24 But does not he who is about to perish stretch out his hands [unless his heart blames him for something]. Does not he who is in misfortune ask for help. 
25 Did I not weep with him who was in trouble. Was not my soul grieved for the needy. 
26 And yet misfortune came on me when I hoped for good, and darkness came when I hoped for light. 
27 My bowels boil without rest, for the days of affliction have come on me. 
28 I am always sad and depressed, without any comfort. I stand up in the middle of the assembly and cry.
29 I am a brother to jackals and a companion to ostriches. 
30 My skin is burned by heat and falls off, my bones are hot with fever.
31 Therefore my harp is nothing more than an instrument of mourning, and my flute imitates the voices of those who weep.
