1 And Job answered in the following words. 
2 Oh if it were possible to weigh my pain, and if all my suffering were in a scale. 
3 It would then be heavier than the sand of the sea. This is why my words are those of madness. 
4 For the arrows of the Almighty are in me, and my spirit drinks their venom. The terrors of God are mobilized to fight against me. 
5 Does the wild donkey bray when it has tender grass, or does the ox bellow when it has its fodder. 
6 Should one eat a tasteless thing without salt. Is there any flavor in the white of an egg. 
7 What my soul refuses to touch, those disgusting things are my food. 
8 May my desire come true. May God fulfill my hope. 
9 May it please God to destroy me. May he extend his hand and kill me. 
10 There will remain for me at least one consolation, one joy in the woes with which he overwhelms me: I have never transgressed the words of the holy one. 
11 What power do I have so that I may endure. And why should I wait when my end is certain. 
12 Is my strength the strength of stones. Is my flesh made of brass. 
13 Am I not helpless, and has my strength not been taken away from me. 
14 He who suffers has the right to the compassion of his neighbor, even if he renounces the fear of the Almighty. 
15 But my brothers are treacherous like a torrent, like the channel of disappearing streams. 
16 Which are black because of the ice, and where the snow hides. 
17 But the heat comes and they dry out, the sun burns and their bed remains dry. 
18 And they stray from their path and their course, and they disappear and perish. 
19 Those who went to Tema stared, and those who went to Sheba waited for them. 
20 But they were ashamed of having trusted, and they got confused when they came there. 
21 Surely you are like that now. For you have seen my terrible disease, and you are afraid. 
22 Did I say to you: Give me something, offer me a gift of your goods. 
23 Or did I say to you: Deliver me from the hand of the enemy, redeem me from the hand of the wicked. 
24 Teach me and I will remain silent. Make me understand how I made a mistake. 
25 True words are convincing. But what can you rightly blame. 
26 Do you imagine to reprove my words, and that the speeches of the one who is desperate should be like the wind. 
27 You overwhelm a fatherless, and you harass your friend. 
28 Now therefore, be content to look at me. For I will not lie before your face. 
29 Consider, I pray you. And let there be no injustice. Consider, I say, and you will recognize my innocence in this behavior. 
30 Is there iniquity on my tongue. Does not my mouth feel sorrow.
