1 Man is born of woman. His life is short and full of trouble. 
2 He springs up like a flower and is cut down. He disappears like a shadow and do not continue. 
3 And yet you open your eyes to such a man and bring me into judgment with you. 
4 Who can bring a clean thing out of dirt. There is not one. 
5 Are not his days determined. The number of his months is with you, and you have set his limits that he cannot pass. 
6 Turn away from him, so that he may rest with the joy of a mercenary until the end of his days. 
7 Even a tree has hope. Because if you cut it, it will be able to grow back and its branch will not cease. 
8 And when its root has grown old in the earth and its trunk is dying in the dust. 
9 Despite this, it will bud when receiving water and it will produce branches like a plant. 
10 But the man is sick and dies. The man perishes, and where is he. 
11 As the waters pass from the sea, and as the flood subsides and dries up. 
12 In this way, a man sleeps and does not get up. He will not wake nor be raised from his sleep until the heavens are no more. 
13 Oh, if you would hide me in the grave and keep me secret until your anger is past, and set a time for me when you will remember me. 
14 If a man dies, will he live again. If that were the case then I would have hope throughout my suffering until my condition changed. 
15 And then you would call and I would answer you. And you would greatly enjoy the work of your hands. 
16 But now you count my steps, and you keep your eye on my sins. 
17 My transgressions are sealed in a bundle, and you imagine other inequities to accuse me. 
18 And as the mountain crumbles and comes to nought, or as the rock is removed from its place. 
19 Or as the stone is broken by the waters when you overflow the things that grow in the dust of the earth. This is how you destroy the hope of man. 
20 You are constantly attacking him, until he goes away. He changes his face when you send him away. 
21 And he does not know whether his sons will be honored, nor does he perceive whether they will be humiliated. 
22 It is for him alone that he experiences pain in his body, and it is for him alone that he feels sadness in his soul.
