1 There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and this man was righteous and upright. He feared God and turned away from evil. 
2 Seven sons and three daughters were born to him. 
3 And he had seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred pairs of oxen, and five hundred female donkeys, and a very large number of servants. And this man was the most considerable of all the men of the East. 
4 And his sons usually went to make a feast in the house of one of them, each receiving the others on his day, and they invited their three sisters to eat and drink with them. 
5 And whenever the days of feasting were over, Job called his sons and sanctified them. And he got up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings for each one of them. For Job thought within himself, Perhaps my sons have sinned and have offended God in their hearts. This is how Job continually acted. 
6 Now on a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before Yahweh, Satan also came among them. 
7 And Yahweh said to Satan, Where do you come from. And Satan answered Yahweh and said, From going backward and forward on the earth, and from walking on it. 
8 And Yahweh said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job. There is no one like him on earth. He is a just and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil. 
9 And Satan answered Yahweh and said, Does Job fear God in an unselfish way. 
10 Have you not protected him and his house, and all that he has. You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions increase in the land. 
11 But if you stretch out your hand and touch everything that belongs to him, then I am sure that he will curse you to your face. 
12 And Yahweh said to Satan, Behold I deliver all that belongs to him into your hands, but you will not put your hand on him. And Satan went away from the presence of Yahweh. 
13 And on a day when the sons and the daughters of Job were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. 
14 A servant came to Job and said to him, The oxen were plowing and the donkeys were feeding beside them. 
15 And the Sabeans came violently and seized them, and killed the servants with the sword. And I am the only one who escaped to tell you the news. 
16 And as he continued to speak, another came and said: The fire of God fell from heaven, and burned the sheep and the servants and devoured them. And I am the only one who escaped to tell you the news. 
17 And as he continued to speak, another came and said: The Chaldeans formed into three bands and threw themselves on the camels, captured them and killed the servants with the sword. And I am the only one who escaped to tell you the news. 
18 And as he continued to speak, another came and said: Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. 
19 And behold, a great wind came from beyond the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house and it fell on the children, and they died. And I am the only one who escaped to tell you the news. 
20 Then Job got up and tore his garment, and shaved his head. And he fell to the ground and worshiped. 
21 And Job said: I came out naked from my mother’s womb, and I will return naked into the heart of the earth. Yahweh has given, and Yahweh has taken. Blessed be the name of Yahweh. 
22 In all this, Job did not sin and did not attribute anything unjust to God.
