1 Then Job answered Yahweh in the following words. 
2 I know that you can do anything and that none of your purposes can be changed.
3 Who is the one who is foolish enough to obscure your plans. I have spoken, without understanding them, of wonders which surpass me and which I cannot conceive.
4 Hear, I implore you, and I will speak. I will question you and you will teach me.
5 I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you [because you speak to me from the whirlwind, you appear to my eyes in the form of a whirlwind. I had heard about you from what others told me, but now I have heard you talk myself]. 
6 Therefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes. 
7 After Yahweh had spoken these words to Job, Yahweh said to Eliphaz the Temanite: My anger is kindled against you and your two friends, because you have not spoken uprightly [wholeheartedly] about me as my servant Job did.
8 Therefore now take seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer a burnt offering for you, and my servant Job will pray for you. And it is only because of him that I will not shame you, for you have not spoken of me wholeheartedly like my servant Job did. 
9 So Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, they went and did as Yahweh had said to them. And Yahweh accepted the prayer of Job. 
10 Then Yahweh restored Job to his former state after Job prayed for his friends. And Yahweh gave Job twice as much as he had before. 
11 Then all his brothers and all his sisters came to him, and all those who had known him before. And they ate bread with him in his house, and had compassion on him, and comforted him for all the trouble that Yahweh had brought on him. And each man gave him a piece of money, and each one an earring of gold.
12 So Yahweh blessed the last days of Job more than the first. And he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.
13 He also had seven sons and three daughters. 
14 And he called the name of the first Jemimah, and the name of the second Keziah, and the name of the third Keren-happuch. 
15 In all the land there was no woman as beautiful as the daughters of Job, and their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers. 
16 And after this Job lived a hundred and forty years. And he saw his sons, and his sons' sons, to the fourth generation.
17 Then Job died, being old and full of days.
