1 Call now, but who will answer you. Who are the saints to whom you will turn. 
2 The fool perishes by his anger, and envy kills the idiot. 
3 I have seen the fools taking root, and suddenly I cursed his house with the following words. 
4 His children will be far from happiness. They will be destroyed at the gate, and no one will deliver them. 
5 Those who are hungry will eat his harvest. They will take it even among the thorns, and those who are thirsty will drink from it. 
6 For misfortune does not come from dust, and affliction does not spring from the ground. 
7 But in the same way that sparks spring upwards, man is born in trouble. 
8 As for me, I will resort to God, and it is to God that I will present my case. 
9 He does great and unfathomable things, marvels without number. 
10 He gives rain on the earth, and send water to the countryside. 
11 And he exalts the humble on high, so that the sorrowful may be raised to happiness. 
12 He destroys the plans of cunning men, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise. 
13 He catches the wise in their own trickery, and the designs of crafty men are become foolish. 
14 They encounter darkness during the day, and they grope at noon as well as at night. 
15 But God protects the weak from the sword of their mouth, and saves him from the hand of the violent man. 
16 And the poor man has his hope, but iniquity will stop her mouth. 
17 Blessed is the man whom God corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty. 
18 He makes the wound and he bandages it. He hurts people and his hand heals them. 
19 Six times he will deliver you from anguish, and seven times evil will not touch you. 
20 He will save you from death in famine and from the power of the sword in war. 
21 You will be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, and you will not be afraid when destruction comes. 
22 And you will laugh of destruction as of famine, and you will not fear the beasts of the earth. 
23 For you will be in cooperation with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field will be at peace with you. 
24 And you will enjoy happiness in your tent, and you will find no sin when you visit your house. 
25 You will also perceive that your posterity will be great, and your seed will multiply like the grass of the fields. 
26 And you will enter the tomb in old age, as one carries a sheaf of grain in its time. 
27 Lo, this is what we have recognized, and this is what is. It is up to you to hear and take advantage.
