1 And Job spoke in the following words. 
2 Listen carefully to my words, give me only this consolation.
3 Let me speak. And when I have spoken, then make fun of me. 
4 Is my complaint directed against a man. If it was the case then my mind would have been troubled. 
5 Look at me and be astonished. And put your hand on your mouth. 
6 When I think about it, it terrifies me and a tremor seizes my body. 
7 Why the wicked live, and become old, and increase in strength. 
8 Their posterity is strengthened with them and in their presence, and their offspring prosper before their eyes. 
9 In their houses there is peace, without a mixture of fear. The rod of God does not come to strike them. 
10 Their bulls are vigorous and fertile. Their cows calve, and no one of them throws away her calf. 
11 They let their children run like sheep, and the children have fun. 
12 They sing to the tambourine and the harp, and rejoice to the sound of the flute. 
13 They spend their days in wealth, and suddenly they go down to the grave. 
14 They also say to God: Depart from us, for we do not desire the knowledge of your ways. 
15 Who is the Almighty so that we should serve him. And what profit would we have if we prayed to him. 
16 But behold, their riches are not in their hands. Therefore let the counsels of the wicked be far from me. 
17 How many times one notices that the lamp of this or that other wicked man is extinguished, and that their destruction has come on them. He destroys their lives in his anger. 
18 They will be like the straw blown away by the wind, and like the ball removed by the storm. 
19 God will reserve a part of the father's sorrow for his children. But when he rewards him, he will know it. 
20 His eyes will see his destruction, and he will drink of the wrath of the Almighty. 
21 For what pleasure has he in his house after him, when the number of his months is completed. 
22 Will anyone teach knowledge to God who judges the highest things. 
23 There is this person who dies when he has all his strength, being in all ease and prosperity.
24 His breasts are full of milk and his bones are full of marrow. 
25 And another person dies in the bitterness of his soul, and never eats with pleasure. 
26 And these two will sleep in the dust, and worms will cover them. 
27 Behold, I know what your thoughts are and what judgments you make of me. 
28 For you say: Where is the house of the prince, and where is the tabernacle in which the wicked one dwelt. 
29 Did you not question the travelers. You cannot ignore the signs. 
30 The wicked are kept until the day of destruction, and they will be brought to the day of wrath. 
31 Who will blame God for his work of creation, and who will reward him for what he has done.
32 For man will be brought to the grave and will remain in the heap.
33 The mounds of the valley will be sweet to him, and every man will follow him, as there were countless before him. 
34 So you comfort me in vain, since in your answers there remains only lies [And I do not blame God but I meditate in my pain and my innocence].
