1 Then Zophar the Naamathite spoke in the following words. 
2 My thoughts force me to respond, and my agitation cannot be contained. 
3 I have heard the reproaches that shame me. Therefore the spirit of my understanding impelled me to answer. 
4 Do you not know this ancient thing, since God placed man on earth. 
5 That the triumph of the wicked is short-lived, and the joy of the hypocrites is but a moment. 
6 His glory can rise to the heavens and his head can touch the clouds. 
7 But he will perish forever like his excrement, and those who saw him will say: Where is he. 
8 He will fly away like a dream, and they will not find him. And he will disappear like a vision of the night. 
9 So that the eye that had seen him would no longer see him, and his place would no longer see him. 
10 His sons will be assailed by the poor, and his hands will restore what he took by violence. 
11 His bones are full of the sin of his youth, and it will lie with him in the dust. 
12 The wickedness was sweet in his mouth, and he hid it under his tongue. 
13 He savored it without wanting to let it go. He kept it close to his mouth. 
14 Then his food in his bowels was turned upside down. The venom of asps was in his body. 
15 He has devoured the riches and he will vomit it out, for God will take it out of his belly. 
16 He has sucked the venom of the asp, and the tongue of the viper will kill him. 
17 He will not see the rivers, nor the floods and streams of honey and butter. 
18 He will restore the labor and devour no more. He will restore all that he has taken, and will enjoy it no more. 
19 For he oppressed many. He forsook the poor, and he despoiled houses that he did not build. 
20 He will surely not feel quietness in his body nor will he retain what he desired. 
21 Nothing escapes his voracity, but his well-being will not last. 
22 In the midst of abundance he will be in distress, and the hand of all the wicked will be raised against him. 
23 He is filling his belly, but God will send a fierce wrath on him and satisfy him with a rain of calamity. 
24 If he escapes the iron weapons then the brazen bow will pierce him. 
25 The arrow is torn off and leaves the body, and is made bright by his innards. Then fear invades him. 
26 All darkness is reserved for his treasures. He will be consumed by a fire that no one has lit, and what remains in his tabernacle will be destroyed. 
27 The heavens will reveal his iniquity, and the earth will rise up against him. 
28 The increase of his house will go away. It will disappear in the day of God's wrath. 
29 This is the portion of the wicked man given by God. This is the inheritance that God reserves for him.
