1 And Job spoke in the following words. 
2 It seems, in truth, that the human kind is you and wisdom will go away when you die. 
3 But I have as much understanding as you, I am not inferior to you. Who does not know the things you say. 
4 I am an object of mockery to my friends. When I cry out to God for help, he responds: The righteous and the innocent must be ridiculed. 
5 He who is ready to fall is like a lamp despised in the eyes of those who are comfortable. 
6 There is peace in the tent of thieves and security for those who offend God, for everyone who considers his strength as a god. 
7 Now ask the beasts and they will teach you, or the birds of the air and they will tell you. 
8 Or speak to the earth, and it will teach you. And the fish of the sea will declare it to you. 
9 Who does not recognize in them the proof that the hand of Yahweh has done all things. 
10 He holds in his hand the soul of all that lives and the breath of all human flesh. 
11 Does not the ear discern the words, and does not the palate savor food. 
12 Among the elders is wisdom, and in the length of days is understanding. 
13 In God resides wisdom and power. He has advice and understanding. 
14 What he overthrows cannot be rebuilt, what he encloses cannot be delivered. 
15 Behold he retains the waters and everything dries up. And when he lets them go, the earth is devastated. 
16 With him are strength and wisdom. He who is deceived and he who deceives are both his. 
17 He misleads the counselors and drives the judges crazy. 
18 He unties the belt of kings, and fastens their waists with a belt. 
19 He guides princes and makes them prey, and he overthrows the mighty. 
20 He takes away the word of the faithful counselors and takes away the judgment of the elders. 
21 He causes contempt of the princes and weakens the strength of the mighty. 
22 He reveals what is hidden in darkness and brings the shadow of death to light. 
23 He increases the nations and destroys them. He extends them far away, and he brings them back within their limits. 
24 He takes away the intelligence of the leaders of the peoples of the earth, and he makes them wander in a pathless wilderness. 
25 They grope in the dark without light, and he makes them wander like a drunken man.
