1 The word of Yahweh that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. [This happened after the abominations that the people committed in the days of Manasseh king of Judah, and before the destruction of the city that took place in the days of Zedekiah king of Judah.] 
2 Hear this, you old men. Give ear, you all the inhabitants of the land. Has anything like this happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers. 
3 Tell it to your children, and let your children tell it to their children, and their children to the next generation. 
4 What the destructive caterpillar has left, the locust has devoured. And what the locust has left, the geometer moths has devoured. And what the geometer moths has left, the scorpionfly has devoured. 
5 Awake, you drunkards, and weep. Wail, you all the drinkers of wine, because the new wine will be taken away from your mouths. 
6 For a nation will come against my land, mighty and without number [innumerable]. He has the teeth of a lion, and the jaws of a great lion. 
7 He ravages my vineyard, and breaks my fig tree in pieces. They strip it and cut it down, and its branches turn white. 
8 Lament like a virgin who puts on sackcloth to mourn the husband of her youth. 
9 Mourn, you the priests who minister before Yahweh, because the meal offerings and the drink offerings will cease from the house [temple] of Yahweh. 
10 The fields are desolate, and the land is grieved. For the grain is destroyed, and the new wine is dried up, and the oil is dried up.
11 Be ashamed, you plowmen. Wail, you vinedressers. Do it because of the wheat and the barley, for the harvest of the field is ruined. 
12 The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languishes. The pomegranate tree, the palm tree, the apple tree, all the trees of the field have withered. Joy has ceased from among the sons of men.
13 Gird yourselves with sackcloth and lament, you the priests. Wail, you who minister at the altar. Come and spend the night in sackcloth, you the ministers of my God. For meal offerings and drink offerings will cease from the house [temple] of your God. 
14 Proclaim a fasting, call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house [temple] of Yahweh your God, and cry out to Yahweh. 
15 Alas, because of the day. For the day of Yahweh is near, and it comes like a destruction from the Almighty. 
16 [And the priests will say:] Is not the food taken away before our eyes. Have not joy and gladness been cut off from the house of our God. [These priests will be dismayed because of the loss of all the offerings that they should have received from the people as required by the law given by Moses.]
17 .
18 .
19 .
20 .
