1 Blow the trumpet in Zion, and shout on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble. For the day of Yahweh is coming, for it is near. 
2 A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness. It comes like the morning that spreads over the mountains. It is a great people who come, a strong people such as there has not been the likeness before, and there will not be the likeness after it during the years of many generations. 
3 There is a devouring fire before them, and behind them a burning flame. The land is like the garden of Eden before them, and behind them it will become a terrible wilderness. Nothing will escape them. 
4 Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and they run like horsemen. 
5 Their noise is like the noise of chariots leaping on the tops of the mountains, like the crackling of a flame of fire when it devours the stubble, like a mighty army preparing for battle. 
6 The peoples will be in anguish before them, and all faces will turn pale. 
7 They rush forward like mighty warriors, and they climb the walls like warriors. Each one goes on his own way, without straying from his path. 
8 They do not push one another, and each one walks in his own path. They rush through the arrows without stopping their march. 
9 They will spread throughout the city, and run on the wall, and climb on the houses, and enter through the windows like a thief. 
10 The earth trembles before them, and the heavens shakes. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. 
11 And Yahweh utters his voice before his army. For his army is very great, and he who executes his word is mighty. For the day of Yahweh is great and very terrible. Who can withstand it. 
12 Therefore return to me with all your hearts now, says Yahweh, with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning. 
13 Rend your hearts and not your garments, and return to Yahweh your God. For he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness. He can repent of an evil that he intends to do. 
14 Who knows if he will not repent and turn away from the evil that he has planned, and leave a blessing behind him. Then you would have enough food to willingly offer the meal offerings and drink offerings to Yahweh your God. 
15 Blow the trumpet in Zion. Proclaim a fasting, call a solemn assembly. 
16 Gather the people, and sanctify the assembly. Gather the old men, and gather the children, and even the sucklings. Let the bridegroom come out of his place, and the bride out of her chamber.
17 Let the priests, the ministers of Yahweh, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say: Spare your people, O Yahweh. Do not give your heritage to reproach, do not cause the nations to rule over your people. Why should they say among the peoples, 'Where is their God'. 
18 Then Yahweh will be jealous for his land, and will spare his people. 
19 And Yahweh will answer and say to his people: Behold I will send you grain, and new wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied. And I will not make you a subject of reproach among the nations. [I will be patient.]
20 . 
21 Do not be afraid, O land, be glad and rejoice. For Yahweh will do great things in a certain future. 
22 Do not be afraid, you the beasts of the field. For the pastures of the wilderness will be green, and the trees will bear their fruit. The fig tree and the vine will yield their strength. 
23 And you, children of Zion, be glad and rejoice in Yahweh your God. For he will give you the rain in its season. He will send you the early and the latter rain, as in the beginning. 
24 The threshing floors will be filled with grain, and the vats will overflow with new wine and oil. 
25 And I will restore to you the years that have been eaten by the caterpillar, and the locust, and the geometer moths, and the scorpionfly, my great army that I will have sent among you. 
26 And you will eat and be satisfied, and you will praise the name of Yahweh your God who has done wonders for you. And my people will never be ashamed. 
27 And you will know that I am in the midst of Israel. I am Yahweh your God, and there is no other [god], and my people will never be ashamed. 
28 Afterward I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your old men will have dreams, and your young men will see visions. 
29 In those days I will pour out my spirit even on servants, both men and women. 
30 Before that I will show wonders in the sky and on the earth: blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. 
31 The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and terrible day of Yahweh. 
32 And after that, everyone who will call on the name of Yahweh will be saved. Salvation will originate on mount Zion and in Jerusalem, as Yahweh has said, among the remnant whom Yahweh will call.
