1 On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early in the morning, while it was still dark. And she saw that the stone had been taken away from [the opening of] the tomb. 
2 Then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them: They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. 
3 Therefore Peter and that other disciple went forth, and they came to the tomb. 
4 They were both running together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first. 
5 And he stooped at the opening of the tomb, and saw the linen clothes lying there, but did not go in. 
6 Then came Simon Peter, who was following the other disciple.  
7 And Peter went into the tomb, and saw the linen cloths lying there. And he saw that the towel that had been placed on the head of Jesus was not with the linen clothes, but folded in a place by itself. 
8 Then the other disciple who was the first to reach the tomb also entered, and he saw, and he believed. 
9 For they did not yet understand that according to the scriptures, Jesus must rise from the dead. 
10 Then the disciples returned to their own home. 
11 But Mary was standing outside the tomb and was weeping.  
12 And while she was weeping, she stooped down to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had been laid, one at the head and the other at the feet. 
13 And they said to her, 'Woman, why are you weeping'. And she said to them, 'Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him'. 
14 And when she had spoken thus, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not know that it was Jesus. 
15 And Jesus said to her, 'Woman, why are you weeping. Whom are you looking for'. And she was supposing that it was the gardener, and she said to him, 'Sir, if you have carried him away, then tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away'. 
16 Then Jesus said to her, 'Mary'. And she turned around, and said to him, 'Rabboni', which means Master. 
17 And Jesus said to her: Do not touch me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brothers and tell them that I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. 
18 And Mary Magdalene went and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. 
19 And the disciples assembled on that same day at evening, on the first day of the week, and they shut the doors for fear of the Jews. Then Jesus came and stood among them, and said to them: Peace be with you. 
20 And when he had spoken thus, he showed them his hands and his side. And the disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. 
21 Then Jesus said to them again: Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, so I send you. 
22 And when he had spoken thus, he breathed on them and said to them: Receive the Holy Spirit. 
23 Those to whom you will forgive sins, they will be forgiven. And those to whom you will not forgive sins, those sins will not be forgiven. [Now Jesus is saying that a person who possesses the Holy Spirit has the power to forgive or not forgive the wrongdoings that others may commit against him, and this choice must be made in the search for the well-being of others in a global way through the message which is transmitted to them and not only in the search for one's personal well-being, and this is something new for his disciples who are Jewish because the law given by Moses specifies something else which did not exist during the days of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. According to the law of Moses, a priest who is by definition a descendant of Aaron must be present so that there can be forgiveness of the sin that a person has committed by offending another, and the guilty person must offer a guilt offering in addition to the restoration of the wrong committed and the addition to this restoration of the fifth of the value of the wrong committed. And the guilt offerings which are offered in this way are eaten by the priests according to the following scripture: These will be yours from the most holy things which are not completely consumed by fire: all their offerings of all their meal offerings, and of all their sin offerings, and of all their transgress offerings, which they bring to me. These will be most holy to you and to your sons.] 
24 But Thomas who was called Didymus, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. 
25 Then the other disciples said to him, 'We have seen the Lord'. But he said to them: Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. 
26 And after eight days, the disciples of Jesus were again in the house, and Thomas was with them. Then Jesus came when the doors were shut, and he stood in the midst and said: Peace be with you. 
27 Then he said to Thomas: Put your finger here, and see my hands, and stretch out your hand and put it into my side. And do not be incredulous, but believe. 
28 Then Thomas answered and said to him: My Lord and my God. 
29 And Jesus said to him: Thomas, you have believed because you have seen me. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have believed. 
30 There are many other signs that Jesus did in the presence of his disciples, and that are not written in this book. 
31 But these things have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.
