1 Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus already knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go back to the Father, after all the love that he had had throughout his life for the people who belonged to him in the world, at that time he chose to bring that love to its highest level among his disciples. 
2 Indeed, during supper, when the devil had already put the resolution to betray Jesus into the heart of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon. 
3 And Jesus knew that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God, and that he was going to God. 
4 Jesus got up from the table at that moment, took off his robe and took a towel that he wrapped around his waist. 
5 Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them with the towel that he had wrapped around his waist. 
6 And when Jesus came to Simon Peter, he said to Jesus: Lord, should you wash my feet. 
7 And Jesus answered him by saying: What I do, you do not understand it now. But you will understand it later. 
8 And Peter said to him, 'You will never wash my feet'. And Jesus answered him by saying, 'If I do not wash you, then you will have no part with me'. 
9 Then Simon Peter said to him: Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head. 
10 And Jesus said to him: He who is washed only needs to wash his feet to be entirely pure. And you are pure, but not all. 
11 For Jesus knew the one who should betray him. Therefore he said: You are not all pure. 
12 And after Jesus had washed their feet, he put on his clothes and sat down again. Then he said to them: Do you understand what I have done to you. 
13 You call me Master, and Lord. And you say well, because that is what I am. 
14 Therefore if I have washed your feet, I your Lord and Master, then you also ought to wash each other’s feet. 
15 For I have given you an example, so that you may do as I have done to you. 
16 Truly, truly, I say to you, the servant is not greater than his lord. The one who is sent to do something is not greater than the one who has sent him. 
17 If you know these things, then you are blessed as long as you practice them. 
18 I am not talking about all of you, for I know those whom I have chosen. But the scripture must be fulfilled concerning the following word: The one who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. 
19 And now I will tell it to you before the thing happens, so that you believe what I am when it happens. 
20 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives someone whom I have sent receives me, and the one who receives me receives the one who has sent me. 
21 And when Jesus had spoken those words, he was troubled in his spirit, and he said clearly: Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. 
22 Then the disciples looked at each other, wondering who Jesus could be talking about. 
23 And one of his disciples, the one whom Jesus loved, was leaning on the chest of Jesus. 
24 And Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus who it was about. 
25 Then the one who was leaning on the chest of Jesus said to him: Lord, who is it. 
26 And Jesus answered and said, 'He is the one to whom I will give a piece of bread, when I have dipped it'. Then Jesus dipped a piece a bread, and gave it to Judas Iscariot the son of Simon. 
27 And as soon as the piece of bread was given to Judas, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him: What you do, do it promptly. 
28 But none of those who were at the table understood why Jesus had said those words to Judas. 
29 And some thought that, since it was Judas who kept the bag of money, then Jesus was saying to him, 'Buy those things we have need of for the feast', or that Jesus was saying to him to give something to the poor. [Now Jesus spoke clearly but none of the disciples understood because they were used to considering the words of Jesus as parables, since Jesus used to tell many parables.] 
30 And as soon as Judas had taken the piece of bread, he hastened to go out. It was night. 
31 And when Judas had gone out, Jesus said: Now the Son of man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. 
32 If God has been glorified in him, then God will also glorify him in himself, and he will soon glorify him. 
33 Little children, I am still with you for a short time. You will seek me, but I say to you now what I said to the Jewish leaders: You cannot come where I am going. [Now this word had a certain meaning when Jesus said it to the Jewish leaders, and the meaning is not the same when Jesus says it to his disciples. Now Jesus simply wants to tell his disciples that it is not yet time for them to die according to the flesh.] 
34 I give you a new commandment: Love one another. As I have loved you, you also love one another. 
35 By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you have love one to another. 
36 Then Simon Peter said to Jesus, 'Lord, where are you going'. And Jesus answered him, 'Now you cannot follow me where I go, but you will follow me there later'. [Now Jesus speaks of the place of which he said that certain Jewish leaders will not be able to come where he is going, those of them who will not repent.] 
37 Then Peter said to Jesus: Lord, why can I not follow you now. I am ready to give my life for you. 
38 And Jesus answered him and said: You say that you are ready to give your life for me. Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow this day until you have denied three times that you know me.
