1 After these things, Jesus appeared again to the disciples at the sea of ​​Tiberias. And here is how he has appeared to them. 
2 There were Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of the disciples of Jesus. 
3 Simon Peter had said to them, 'I am going to fish'. And they had said to him, 'We will go with you'. So they went out and got into a boat, and that night they caught nothing. 
4 And when morning had come, Jesus was standing on the shore. But the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. 
5 And Jesus said to them, 'Children, do you have anything to eat'. And they answered him, 'No'. 
6 Then he said to them, 'Throw the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find something'. So they threw it there, and then they could no longer pull it in because of the large number of the fishes that had been caught. 
7 Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, 'It is the Lord'. And when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girded on his tunic because he was naked, and he threw himself into the sea. 
8 And the other disciples came by the boat, dragging the net full of fishes. For they were only about two hundred cubits from land. 
9 When they reached the shore and got out of the boat, they saw a fire of coals there. And there were fish on the fire, and bread. 
10 Then Jesus said to them: Bring some of the fishes which you have caught. 
11 And Simon Peter got into the boat and dragged the net to land [with the help of other disciples], and there were one hundred and fifty and three fishes. And despite the fact that there were so many [of a certain size], the net was not broken. 
12 And Jesus said to them, 'Come and eat'. And none of the disciples dared to ask him, 'Who are you'. For they knew that it was the Lord. 
13 Then Jesus came and took the bread, and gave them some, and he also gave them fish. 
14 This was now the third time that Jesus had appeared to his disciples since he had risen from the dead. [That is to say, to a group of his eleven apostles.] 
15 And after they had eaten, Jesus said to Simon Peter, 'Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these'. And Peter said to him, 'Yes, Lord. You know that I love you'. And Jesus said to him, 'Feed my lambs'.
16 And Jesus said to him a second time, 'Simon, son of John, do you love me'. And Peter said to him, 'Yes, Lord. You know that I love you'. And Jesus said to him, 'Feed my sheep'. 
17 And Jesus said to him the third time, 'Simon, son of John, do you love me'. And Peter was saddened because he had said to him the third time, 'Do you love me'. And Peter said to him, 'Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, 'Feed my sheep'. 
18 Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you and carry you wherever you do not want to go. 
19 Jesus spoke thus to indicate by what death Peter would glorify God. And when he had spoken thus, he said to Peter, 'Follow me'. 
20 And Peter turned around, and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. This was the same disciple who had leaned on the chest of Jesus during the supper and had said, 'Lord, who is the one who will betray you'. 
21 And when Peter saw that disciple, he said to Jesus: Lord, what will happen to this man. 
22 And Jesus said to him: If I want him to remain until I come, why should you care. And now, follow me. 
23 Then it spread among the brothers that this disciple would not die. Now Jesus had not said to Peter that this disciple would not die, but Jesus had said: If I want him to remain until I come, why should you care. 
24 It is that disciple who bears witness to these things, and wrote these things. And we know that his testimony is true. 
25 Now there are many other things that Jesus had done. And if all those other things were written down every one, I doubt whether the world itself could contain the books that would be written.
