1 And Jesus went to the mount of Olives. 
2 And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him. And Jesus sat down, and taught them. 
3 Then the scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who was arrested after being caught in an act of adultery, and they placed her in the midst of the people who where there [in order to throw stones at her]. 
4 And they said to Jesus: Teacher, this woman has been caught in an act of adultery, in the very act. 
5 Now Moses has commanded us in the law to stone such a woman. And you, what do you say. 
6 They said this thing to test him, in order to have [an additional] reason to accuse him. And after Jesus had heard them, he stooped down and wrote on the ground with his finger. 
7 And while they were continuing to question him on this subject, he lifted up his eyes and said to them: Let the one among you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her. 
8 Then Jesus stooped down again, and wrote on the ground. 
9 And when they heard that answer, they were convicted by their own consciences. And they withdrew one by one, beginning with the oldest and ending with the last. And Jesus remained alone [of all those who were involved in that matter], with the woman who was standing there. 
10 And Jesus lifted up his eyes again, and said to her: Woman, where are your accusers. Has no one condemned you. 
11 And she answered and said, 'None of them, Sir'. And Jesus said to her, 'I also do not condemn you. Go and sin no more'. 
12 Then Jesus spoke to the people again and said: I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. 
13 Then the Pharisees said to him: You testify to the fact that you deserves to be admired, your testimony is not true. 
14 And Jesus answered and said them: I recommend myself, but my testimony is true. For I know where I have come from, and where I am going. And now you do not know where I have come from and where I am going. 
15 You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. 
16 And when I judge, my judgment is true. For I am not alone, but the Father who has sent me is with me. 
17 It is written in your law that the testimony of two men is true. [Now the law given by Moses says that a single witness will not be enough to condemn a man to death. But in real life, Jezebel the wife of king Ahab had succeeded to convince several people to find two wicked men in order to falsely accuse Naboth the Jezreelite and have him killed.] 
18 I bear witness to my message, and the Father who has sent me bears witness witness to me [through the miracles that he allows me to accomplish]. 
19 Then they said to him, 'Where is your Father'. And Jesus answered, 'You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, then you would also know my Father'. 
20 Jesus spoke these words while teaching in the temple, near the room of the treasury [where precious objects are kept]. But no one laid hands on him [to arrest him], because his hour had not yet come. 
21 And Jesus spoke again and said to them: I will go away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sins. You cannot come where I am going. [That is to say, you will not be able to come there because you do not want to give up your sins and understand what the love of God means.]
22 Then the Jews said: Will he kill himself. For he says, 'You cannot come where I am going'. 
23 And Jesus said to them: You are from below, and I am from above. You are of this world, and I am not of this world. 
24 Therefore I have said to you that you will die in your sins. For if you do not believe that I am he, then you will die in your sins. 
25 Then they said to him, 'Who are you'. And Jesus said to them, 'I am what I have told you from the beginning [through my works on the sabbath day]'. 
26 I have many things that I can say to judge you. But the one who has sent me is true, and I speak to the world the things that I have heard from him. 
27 They did not understand that he was talking to them about the Father.
28 Then Jesus said to them: When you will have lifted up the Son of man, then you will know what I am, and that I do nothing on my own initiative, but I speak according to what the Father has taught me. 
29 For the one who sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone, because I always do what is pleasing in his sight. 
30 And while Jesus was speaking those words, many believed in him. [That is to say, many believed that what he was speaking is true.] 
31 Then Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you continue in my word, then you are truly my disciples. 
32 And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. 
33 And other Jews answered him: We are Abraham's seed, and have never been slaves to anyone. How can you say, 'You will be set free'. 
34 And Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave of that sin. 
35 Now the slave does not stay in the house forever, but the Son stay there forever. 
36 So if the Son sets you free, then you will be free indeed. 
37 I know that you are descendants of Abraham, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. 
38 I say what my Father has shown me, and you do what your father has told you. 
39 And they answered and said to Jesus, 'Our father is Abraham'. And Jesus said to them, 'If you were children of Abraham, then you would do the works of Abraham'. 
40 But now you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth which I have heard from God. Abraham did not behave in this way. You are doing the deeds of your father. 
41 Then they said to Jesus: We are not disobedient children. We have one Father, and it is God. 
42 And Jesus said to them: If God were your Father, then you would love me. For I have come from God and I do what pleases him. I have not come to you on my own initiative, but he has sent me. [You are offended when I do a work on a sabbath day, and your concern is not to judge the nature of the work that I do. And yet Moses taught you in the law that you must not condemn every murderer, but that you must seek to understand whether the person acted willfully with malice or unwillingly without malice.]
43 Why do you not understand my oration. It is because you cannot listen to my words. [That is to say, your heart does not accept that what I do is good because you do not have within you the true love of God which consists first of all in loving one's neighbor as oneself.] 
44 You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. He speaks from his own depths when he tells a lie, for he is a liar and the father of it. 
45 And you do not believe me because I am telling you the truth. 
46 Which of you can persuade me to commit a sin. Why do you not believe me when I tell you the truth. [I know the answer, it is only because you are not of God.] 
47 He who is of God hears the words of God. You do not listen [to my words] because you are not of God. [That is to say, it is because you are not of God that my words find no place in your hearts.] 
48 Then the Jews answered and said to him: Are we not right if we say that you are a Samaritan and that you have a demon in you. [Now the Samaritans are a group of the children of Jacob who have slightly perverted the meaning of the law given by Moses, and who do not accept the holiness of the scriptures that the Jews received after Moses, especially the scriptures that are related to the work of David king of Israel.] 
49 And Jesus answered: I do not have a demon. But I honor my Father, and you disgrace me. 
50 I do not seek my own glory. There is one who is seeking it, and he is the judge. 
51 Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word [in order to practice it] then he will never see death. 
52 Then the Jews said to him: Now we know that you have a demon. For Abraham is dead, and the prophets [who have lived after him], and you say, 'If anyone keeps my word then he will never see death'. 
53 Are you greater than our father Abraham. He is dead, and the prophets are dead. Who do you think that you are. 
54 And Jesus answered: If I honor myself then my honor is nothing. It is my Father who honors me, the one of whom you say that he is your God. 
55 And you have not known him, but I know him. And if I choose to say that I do not know him, then I will become like you, a liar. But I know him, and I obey his word. 
56 Your father Abraham had rejoiced concerning the fact that a day will come when I will be truly exalted throughout the whole world. And he saw my day [in a vision], and he was glad. 
57 Then the Jews said to him: You are not yet fifty years old, and you have seen Abraham. 
58 And Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. [That is to say, my teaching was sought by Abraham, and even by other people loved by God who lived before Abraham, since I teach the exact knowledge of the concept of righteousness. I told you previously that I will go to a place where the majority of you cannot come because they are not of God, and it is when I have left that some of you will completely understand the meaning of my words and thus possess the exact knowledge of the concept of righteousness.]
59 Then they took stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
