1 Three days later, there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee and the mother of Jesus was there. 
2 And Jesus was also invited to the wedding with his disciples. 
3 Now when there was no more wine, the mother of Jesus said to him: They have no more wine. 
4 And Jesus said to her: Woman, what have I to do with you. My hour has not yet come. 
5 And his mother said to the servants: Do whatever he tells you. 
6 Now there were in that place six stone waterpots that were used by the Jews for the purification of their bodies, each containing two or three jugs. 
7 And Jesus said to them, 'Fill the waterpots with water'. And they filled them to the brim. 
8 Then Jesus said to them, 'Now take some of the contents from these containers and bring it to the ruler of the feast'. And they did so. 
9 And the ruler of the feast tasted the water that had been turned into wine. And he did not know where it came from, while the servants who had drawn the water knew it. 
10 And he called the bridegroom and said to him: Everyone serves the good wine first, and then the bad is served when the guests have already drunk well. And you, you have kept the good wine until now. 
11 This was the first of the miracles that Jesus performed [in the sight of his disciples], it was at Cana in Galilee. He manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. [That is to say, his disciples believed that he is the Christ awaited by the people of Israel.] 
12 After that, Jesus went down to Capernaum, he and his mother, and his brothers, and his disciples, and they stayed there only a few days. 
13 For the Passover of the Jews was near, therefore Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
14 And he found that those who were selling oxen, and sheep, and doves, and the changers of money, were sitting there in the temple. 
15 Then he made a whip out of small cords, and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen. He scattered the coins of the changers of money, and overturned the tables. 
16 And he said to those who were selling doves: Take these things away. Do not make of the house of my father a house of merchandise. 
17 And his disciples remembered that it was written: The Zeal for your house has devoured me. 
18 Then the Jews answered and said to him: What sign are you showing us, seeing that you have done this thing. 
19 And Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 
20 Then the Jews said: It took forty six years to build this temple [that is to say, the duration of the renovation which is in progress], and you will raise it up in three days. 
21 But he was speaking of the temple of his body. 
22 Therefore when he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this thing, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. 
23 And while Jesus was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in his name when they saw the miracles that he was performing. [That is to say, many believed that he has been sent by God to give a message to his people Israel.]
24 But Jesus did not trust them, because he knew them all. 
25 For he did not need anyone to give him any testimony about any person. For he himself knew what was in man.
