1 Afterward, Jesus went over the sea of ​​Galilee which is the sea of ​​Tiberias. 
2 And a great multitude followed him, because they saw the miracles that he was performing on the sick. 
3 And Jesus went up on a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 
4 Now the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was near. 
5 And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and saw the large crowd that had come to him. And he said to Philip: Where are we going to buy bread to be able to feed this people. 
6 Jesus said this thing to probe Philip, for he himself knew what he was going to do. 
7 And Philip answered him: Even if two hundred denarii were available to buy bread, it would not be enough for everyone to have a little. 
8 Then one of his disciples, Andrew the brother of Simon Peter, said the following thing to Jesus. 
9 There is a young man here who has five barley loaves and two fishes. But what can this food be used for if such a large crowd has to be fed. 
10 And Jesus said, 'Have the crowd sit down'. Now there was much grass at that place. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number. 
11 And Jesus took the loaves, and gave thanks, and distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting. And he did the same thing with the fishes, and they had as many as they wanted. 
12 And when they were satisfied, he said to his disciples: Gather up the leftover fragments of this food, so that nothing gets wasted. 
13 So they gathered it together, and filled twelve baskets with the leftover fragments from the five barley loaves. This was what was left after everyone had eaten. 
14 And the people saw the miracle that Jesus had performed, and they were saying: This one is certainly that prophet who is awaited in the world. 
15 And Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take him away and make him king. Therefore he went again into the hills, alone. 
16 And when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea. [Now Jesus certainly ordered them to leave and cross the sea without him.]
17 And they entered a boat, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. Now it was already night, and Jesus had not yet come to them. 
18 And a strong wind was blowing, and the sea was getting rough. 
19 And when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming to the boat. And they were afraid. 
20 But Jesus said to them: It is I, do not be afraid. 
21 Then they wanted to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat reached the land where they were going. 
22 And the crowd that stood on the other side of the sea noticed that there was only one boat there, and that Jesus had not gone with with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples had gone away alone in that boat. 
23 And on the next day, other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 
24 And the people saw that neither Jesus nor his disciples were there, and they got into the boats, and they went to Capernaum in order to seek Jesus. 
25 And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when have you come here. 
26 And Jesus answered them and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen miracles, but because you have been satisfied after you have eaten of the loaves. 
27 Work not for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to everlasting life and that the Son of man will give to you. For God the Father has set his seal on the Son of man. 
28 Then they said to Jesus: What must we do, in order to work the works of God. 
29 And Jesus answered and said to them: The work of God is that you must believe in the one whom he has sent. [That is to say, you must believe in the message that the Son of man will give you.] 
30 Therefore they said to Jesus: What then is the sign that you show us so that we may believe in you. What will you do. 
31 Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat. 
32 Then Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. 
33 For the bread of God is the one who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. 
34 And they said to him: Lord, give us this bread always. [Now they are talking about the bread that Jesus distributed to them in sufficient quantity when they were on the other side of the sea.]
35 And Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never hunger, whoever believes in me will never thirst. [Now it is written in the law of Moses: Remember all the way by which the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness to humble you, and to test you, and to know what was in your heart and whether or not you would keep his commandments. Therefore he has humbled you, and has made you hungry, and has fed you with manna which you did not know and which your fathers did not known, in order to teach you that man does not live only by bread but by every word that comes out of the mouth of the Lord.] 
36 And I have just said it to you, and you have seen me, but you do not believe. 
37 All those whom the Father gives me will come to me, and I will not put away the one who comes to me. 
38 For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of the one who has sent me. 
39 And the will of the one who has sent me is that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but should raise it up at the last day. 
40 For the will of my Father is that every man who sees the Son and believes in him should have everlasting life. And I will raise up such a person at the last day. 
41 Then the Jews murmured concerning him, because he said: I am the bread that has come down from heaven. 
42 And they said: Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph. Do we not know his father and his mother. How then does he say, 'I have come down from heaven'. 
43 And Jesus answered and said to them: Do not murmur among yourselves. 
44 No one can come to me unless he is drawn by the Father who has sent me. And I will raise him up at the last day. 
45 It is written in the prophets, 'They will all be taught by God'. So everyone who has heard and learned of the Father comes to me. 
46 No one has seen the Father, except the one who is from God. For he has seen the Father. 
47 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me has everlasting life. [That is to say, whoever believes in my message.]
48 I am the bread of life. 
49 Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness, and they died. [That is to say, those of your father who left a disgusting memory because of their multiple disobedience. For God had decided that all the people would remain in the wilderness for forty years because of their multiple disobedience, until the death of all those who were old enough when they left the land of Egypt, with an exception for the few ones who did not disobey him continuously.] 
50 This is the bread that has come down from heaven, so that whoever eats it may not die. 
51 I am the living bread which has come down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, then he will live forever. And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. 
52 Then the Jews were disputing among themselves by saying: How can this man give us his flesh to eat. 
53 And Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you do not have life in you. 
54 Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. 
55 For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 
56 Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood dwells in me, and I in him. 
57 As the living Father has sent me, and as I live by the Father, so whoever eats me will live by me. 
58 This is the bread that has come down from heaven, and it is not like the manna that had been eaten by your fathers who are dead. Whoever eats this bread will live forever. [Now those fathers who are dead are those who left a disgusting memory because of their multiple disobedience. For God had decided that all the people would remain in the wilderness for forty years because of their multiple disobedience, until the death of all those who were old enough when they left the land of Egypt, with an exception for the few ones who did not disobey him continuously.] 
59 Jesus said these things in the synagogue, while he was teaching in the city of Capernaum. 
60 And after hearing him speak in this way, many of his disciples said: This is a hard doctrine. Who can hear it [and approve of it]. 
61 And Jesus knew in himself that his disciples were murmuring concerning his words, and he said to them: Does that offend you. 
62 How will you feel then if you see the Son of man ascending to where he was before. 
63 It is the spirit that gives life, the flesh has no importance for that. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some among you who do not believe. 
64 For Jesus knew from the beginning who were those who did not believe, and who was the one who should betray him. 
65 And he added: That is why I have said to you that no one can come to me, unless it has been given to him by the Father. 
66 From that time on, many of his disciples withdrew and no longer walked with him. 
67 Then Jesus said to the twelve: And you, do you not want to leave too. 
68 And Simon Peter answered him: Lord, to whom will we go. You have the words of eternal life. 
69 And we believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. 
70 And Jesus answered them: Have I not chosen you, you who are twelve in number. And one of you is a demon. 
71 Now he was speaking of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. For it was the one who should betray him, one of his twelve apostles.
