1 And Jesus was walking, and he saw a man who was blind from birth. 
2 And the disciples of Jesus questioned him by saying: Rabbi, is it because of his own sin that this man was born blind or is it because of the sin of his parents. 
3 And Jesus answered: It is neither because of his own sin, nor because of the sin of his parents, but in order that the works of God may be manifested through him. [Now Jesus is talking about this man in particular, because he is going to heal him.] 
4 I must work the works of the one who has sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no man can work. [That is to say, I must continue to work to spread my message while I can still do it, before I am delivered to the will of those who want to harm me.] 
5 While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
6 And when Jesus had spoken thus, he spat on the ground and made mud of the saliva, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with that mud. [That is to say, he did put that holy mud on the eyes of the blind man.]
7 Then Jesus said to him: Go and wash in the pool of Siloam [whose name means Sent]. So he went away, and washed, and came back seeing. 
8 Then his neighbors and those who had previously known him when he was a blind man saw him, and they were saying: Is not this the one who used to sit there and beg. 
9 And some were saying, 'It is he'. And others were saying, 'No, but this one looks like him'. And he himself was saying, 'It is me'. 
10 Therefore they said to him: How have your eyes been opened. 
11 And he answered and said: A man who is called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes with it, and said to me, 'Go to the pool of Siloam and wash'. And I went there and washed, and I received my sight. 
12 Then they said to him, 'Where is that man'. And he answered, 'I do not know'. 
13 Then they brought the man who had been blind to the Pharisees. 
14 Now it was on a sabbath day that Jesus had made the mud and healed the eyes of that blind man. 
15 Then the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them: He did put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see. 
16 Then some of the Pharisees said, 'That man is not of God, because he does not keep the sabbath day'. But others said, 'How can a man who is a sinner do such miracles'. So there was a division among them. 
17 Then they spoke again to the man who had been blind by saying, 'What do you say about the one who has opened your eyes'. And he answered and said, 'He is a prophet'. 
18 Then the Jews did not believe that he had been blind before receiving sight. And the Jews sent to call the parents of the one who claimed to have been blind, in order to ensure it. 
19 And the Jews questioned them by saying: Is this your son of whom you say that he was born blind. How then does he see now. 
20 And his parents answered and said: We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. 
21 But regarding the fact that he is no longer blind, and the identity of the one who has opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him directly, since he is old enough to answer for himself. 
22 His parents spoke thus because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that anyone who declares that Jesus is the Christ should be put out of the synagogue. 
23 Therefore his parents said: Ask him, since he is old enough. 
24 Then the Pharisees called again the man who had been blind, and said to him: Give glory to God [that is to say, honor God by telling the truth]. We know that the man who has healed you is a sinner. 
25 And he answered and said: I do not know whether he is a sinner or not. There is one thing that I know, it is that I was blind and I see now. 
26 Then they said to him: What has he done to you. How has he opened your eyes. 
27 And he answered them by saying: I have already given you this answer, and you have not wanted to accept it. Why do you want to hear it again. Do you also want to become his disciples. [Now the disciples of Jesus are used to hearing him say the same thing in many different ways from morning to night, every day.] 
28 Then they reviled him and said: It is you who are his disciple. As for us, we are disciples of Moses. 
29 We know that God had spoken to Moses. But concerning that man, we do not know where he is from. 
30 Then the one who had been blind answered them and said: It is surprising that you do not know where he is from. For he has opened my eyes. 
31 We know that God does not hear sinners, and that he hears anyone who honors him and does his will. 
32 Since the world began, no one has ever heard that someone has opened the eyes of a man born blind. 
33 If this man were not of God, then he could have done nothing. 
34 Then they answered and said to him, 'You were born entirely in sin, and you teach us'. And they cast him out. 
35 And Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And when Jesus found him, he and said to him: Do you believe in the Son of God. 
36 And he answered Jesus by saying: And who is he, Lord, so that I may believe in him. 
37 And Jesus said to him: You have seen him, and he is the one who is speaking to you. 
38 Then he said to Jesus, 'Lord, I believe'. And he bowed and worshiped Jesus. 
39 Then Jesus said: I have come into this world for a judgment, so that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. 
40 And some of the Pharisees who were near Jesus heard those words, and they said to him: Are we blind too. 
41 And Jesus said to them: If you were blind, then you would have no sin. But now you say, 'We see'. Therefore your sin remains.
