1 Afterward, there was a feast of the Jews and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. [Much time had passed since the feast of the Passover which was mentioned previously.]
2 And in Jerusalem, near the place of the sheep, there is a pool whose name in Hebrew is Bethesda and which has five porches. 
3 And a multitude of sick persons was staying under those porches, and there were among them blind, and lame, and paralytic. They were waiting for the water to be stirred by itself. 
4 For an angel came down from time to time into the pool to stir up the water, and the first one who entered into the pool after the water had been stirred was healed of whatever disease he had. 
5 Now there was in that place a certain man who had been sick for thirty eight years. 
6 And Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had been sick for a very long time. And Jesus said to him: Do you want to be healed. 
7 And the sick man answered him and said: Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And whenever I am going down, there is someone else who steps down before me. 
8 And Jesus said to him: Arise, and take up your bed, and walk. 
9 And the man was immediately healed, and he took his bed and walked. It happened on a sabbath day. 
10 Then the Jews said to the one who had been healed: It is a sabbath day, it is not lawful for you to carry your bed. 
11  And he answered them and said: The one who has healed me has said to me, 'Take up your bed and walk'. 
12 And they questioned him by saying: Who is the man who has said to you, 'Take up your bed and walk'. 
13 But the one who had been healed did not know who it was. For Jesus had gone away from the crowd that was there. 
14 After this, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him: Behold you have been healed. Do not sin anymore, lest something worse happen to you. 
15 And the man went and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. 
16 Therefore the Jews were persecuting Jesus, and they were trying to kill him, because he was doing these things on a sabbath day. 
17 And Jesus answered them and said: My Father has been working until now, and I also work. 
18 Therefore the Jews sought even more to kill him. For not only he was breaking the sabbath, but he was also calling God his Father, making himself equal with God. 
19 And Jesus answered and said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son cannot do anything of himself. He only does what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, the Son also does likewise. 
20 For the Father loves the Son, and shows him everything that he himself does. And he will show him greater works than these, so that you may be amazed. 
21 For just as the Father raises the dead by giving them life, so the Son gives life to whomever he wants. 
22 For the Father judges no one, but he has given all judgment to the Son. 
23 For everyone should honor the Son just as they honor the Father. The one who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who has sent him. 
24 Truly, truly, I say to you, if a person hears my word and believes in the one who has sent me, then that person has everlasting life. He will not come into condemnation, for he has passed from death to life.
25 Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and it is already the time, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. And those who hear will live. 
26 For as the Father has life in himself, so he has given to the Son to have life in himself. 
27 And he has also given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of man. 
28 Do not marvel at this. For the hour is coming in which all those who are in the graves will hear his voice. 
29 And they will come forth, and those who have done good will be raised to life, and those who have done evil will be raised to condemnation. 
30 I cannot do anything on my own. I judge in accordance with what I hear, and my judgment is righteous. For I do not seek my own will, but the will of the one who has sent me. 
31 If I am the only one to bear witness to my message, then my testimony is not true. 
32 There is another who bears witness to me, and I know that the testimony that he gives concerning me is true. 
33 You have sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. 
34 My message does not depend on a testimony that a man gives concerning me, but I remind you of what John has said so that you may [believe and] be saved. 
35 John was a lamp that burns and shines, and you have rejoiced in his light for a while. 
36 And I have a greater testimony than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do, bear witness to me that it is the Father who has sent me. 
37 For the Father who has sent me is bearing witness to me in this way. You have never heard his voice, and you have not seen his form. 
38 And his word does not dwell in you, because you do not believe in the one whom he has sent. 
39 You study the scriptures carefully because you think that it will allow you to obtain eternal life. And now, those same scriptures bear witness to me. 
40 And you do not want to come to me in order to have life. 
41 I do not receive glory from men [now that I am alive in the flesh].
42 But I know that you do not have the love of God in you. 
43 I have come in the name of my Father, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, then you will receive him. 
44 How can you believe. For you love to receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory that comes from God alone. 
45 Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses, the one in whom you trust. [You are offended when I do a work on a sabbath day, and your concern is not to judge the nature of the work that I do. And yet Moses taught you in the law that you must not condemn every murderer, but that you must seek to understand whether the person acted willfully with malice or unwillingly without malice. Your heart does not accept that what I do is good because you do not have within you the true love of God which consists first of all in loving one's neighbor as oneself.] 
46 For if you [truly] believed Moses, then you would have believed me. For he wrote about me. 
47 But if you do not believe his writings, then how will you believe my words.
