1 I have told you these things so that you may keep faith in the times of troubles. 
2 They will put you out of the synagogues. And the time is coming when whoever kills you will think that he is doing God service. [That is to say, since you are Jews, your brothers from the twelve tribes will think that they have the right to kill you because of the commandment of Moses that asks them not to spare any of their brothers who tries to incite them to worship another God. And those who believe in me without being Jewish will also be accused in their communities, because people will say that either they are atheists who do not accept the existence of any divine morality, or worshippers of a false God who does not exist because they do not offer him burnt offerings that no one eats except him alone.] 
3 And they will do these things to you because they have known neither the Father nor me. 
4 I have told you these things so that when the hour comes, you remember that I told you about it. I did not tell you about them from the beginning, because I was with you. 
5 And now I am going to the one who has sent me. 
6 But because I have told you these things, sorrow has filled your hearts. 
7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away. For if I do not go away, then the Comforter will not come to you. But if I go, then I will send him to you. 
8 And when he comes, he will enlighten the world concerning the notion of sin, and of justice, and of judgment. 
9 Concerning the notion of sin, because they do not believe in me. 
10 And concerning justice, because I go to my Father, and you will see me no more. 
11 And concerning judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. 
12 I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
13 When he is come, the spirit of truth, he will guide you into all truth. For he will not speak by himself, but he will speak whatever he hears, and he will declare to you things to come. 
14 He will glorify me. For he will take of what is mine, and will declare it to you. 
15 All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I have said that he will take of what is mine, and declare it to you. 
16 A little while, and you will see me no more. And again a little while, and you will see me. For I go to the Father. 
17 Then some of his disciples said to one another: What does he mean by saying to us, 'A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me', and 'For I go to the Father'. 
18 And they were saying: What does he mean by saying, 'A little while'. We do not know what he is talking about. 
19 And Jesus knew that they were desirous to question him, and he said to them: You are questioning one another concerning the following thing that I have said, 'A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me'. 
20 Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament while the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. 
21 When a woman is in labor, she has sorrow because her hour has come. But after she has given birth, she no longer remembers the anguish because of the joy that comes from the fact that a person is born in the world. 
22 In this way, you also have sorrow now. But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that day you will no longer ask me anything [regarding what you have to do]. [Now the disciples will not yet know everything when they see Jesus again after his death, but they will think that they already know everything regarding what they have to do.]
23 Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you will ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. 
24 Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be perfect. 
25 I have spoken these things to you in parables. And the hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in parables, but I will speak to you clearly about the Father. 
26 In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will pray to the Father for you. 
27 For the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I have come from God. 
28 I have come from the Father, and I am into the world. And now I leave the world, and go to the Father. 
29 Then his disciples said: Lo, now you speak clearly. You do not speak in parables. 
30 Now we know that you know all things, and have no need for anyone to question you. Therefore we believe that you have come from God. 
31 And Jesus said to them: You say that you believe now. 
32 Behold the hour is coming, and it is already the time, when you will be scattered each to his own, and you will leave me alone. But I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
33 I have spoken these things to you so that you may have peace in me. You will have tribulations in the world, but have courage. I have overcome the world.
