1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 
2 This thing was in the beginning with God. 
3 All things have been made by it, and none of the things that have been made has been made without it. 
4 In it was life, and that life was the light of human beings. 
5 And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. 
6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 
7 That man came to serve as a witness, to bear witness to the light, so that all men may believe through him. 
8 He was not the light, but he was sent to bear witness to the light. 
9 That light being the true light which enlightens every man who comes into the world. 
10 And it has come in the world, and the world has been made by it, but the world did not know it. 
11 And it has come to its own people, and its own people has not received it. 
12 But to all those who receive it, to those who believe in the power of its name, it gives the prerogative to become children of God. 
13 Indeed, through the ultimate renewal of their moral principles they are not born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God [that is to say, the holy spirit of God]. 
14 For the Word has been made flesh, and has dwelt among us. He was full of grace and truth, and we have admired his glory, the glory of the only begotten Son of the Father. 
15 John bore witness to him, and cried out by saying: This is the one of whom I said, 'He who comes after me has preceded me. For he was before me'. [That is to say, my teaching consists of properly applying the law given by Moses, by taking initiative to seek the good of others rather than limiting oneself to the quantity and quality of offerings prescribed by law, whereas he will teach you a greater knowledge that I myself do not know exactly, like the one that existed before Moses at the time of Job.] 
16 And we have all received from his fullness, and grace for grace. 
17 For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
18 No man has ever seen God. The only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, has declared him. 
19 Here is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem in order to ask him, 'Who are you'. 
20 He declared what he knew, and did not deny it. He declared it by saying: I am not the Christ. 
21 And they asked him, 'What then. Are you Elijah'. And he said, 'I am not'. And they said, 'Are you a prophet'. And he answered, 'No'. 
22 Then they said to him: Tell us who you are, so that we can give an answer to those who have sent us. What do you say about yourself. 
23 And he answered: I am the voice of the one who cries out in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord', as the prophet Isaiah said. 
24 Now those who had been sent to John were some of the Pharisees. 
25 And they questioned him by saying: Why then do you baptize, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor a prophet. [That is to say, Why do you take the initiative to practice among the people a ritual that has not been ordered by the law of which we are aware.] 
26 And John answered them by saying: I baptize with water, but there is among you someone whom you do not know. 
27 He is coming after me but he was before me, and I am not worthy to untie the lace of his sandals. [That is to say, he is coming after me, but he will teach you a message that I do not know and that is older and more important than the message that I am teaching you. Therefore, he is so much greater than me that I am unworthy to untie the laces of his shoes.] 
28 These things occurred in Bethany, beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
29 And on the next day, John said the following thing when he saw Jesus coming toward him: Behold the Lamb of God, for he will take away the sin of the world. 
30 This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who has preceded me. For he was before me'. 
31 I did not know him, but I have come to baptize with water so that he may be revealed to Israel. 
32 And John bore witness to Jesus by saying: I saw the Spirit descending from heaven in the form of a dove, and it rested on him. 
33 I did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize with water said to me: The one on whom you will see the Spirit descending and resting on him, the same is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.
34 And I have seen, and have borne witness that he is the Son of God.
35 And on the next day, John was standing there with two of his disciples. 
36 And John looked at Jesus who was walking there, and said: Behold the Lamb of God. 
37 And the two disciples heard him speak these words, and they followed Jesus. 
38 And Jesus turned toward them, and saw them following him, and said to them, 'What are you looking for'. And they said to him, 'Rabbi [that is to say, Teacher], where do you dwell'. 
39 And Jesus said to them, 'Come and see'. And they went, and they saw where he was dwelling, and they stayed with him that day. It was about the tenth hour. 
40 One of the two who heard the words of John and followed Jesus was Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter. 
41 He was the first to find his own brother Simon and to say to him: We have found the Messiah [that is to say, we have found Christ]. 
42 And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus looked at him and said: You are Simon the son of Jonh. You will be called Cephas [that is to say, Peter]. 
43 And on the next day, Jesus wanted to go to Galilee, and he found Philip. And Jesus said to him: Follow me. 
44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 
45 And Philip found Nathanael, and said to him: We have found the one about whom it is written in the law given by Moses and in the writings of the prophets. It is Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 
46 And Nathanael said to him, 'Can anything good come out of Nazareth'. And Philip answered him by saying, 'Come and see'. 
47 And when Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him, Jesus said of him: Here is a true Israelite, for there is no guile in him. 
48 And Nathanael said to Jesus, 'How do you know me'. And Jesus answered and said to him, 'Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you'. 
49 And Nathanael answered and said to Jesus: Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. 
50 And Jesus answered and said to him: You believe just because I have told you that I saw you under the fig tree [and that there is no guile in you]. You will see greater things than these things. [Now Nathanael believes that Jesus is a prophet because of these two revelations, but it is necessarily something else that makes him believe that Jesus is the Christ awaited by the people of Israel. And we must think that he has been informed by Philip, who himself could have been informed by those who already followed Jesus, of the fact that John gave a particular testimony concerning Jesus.]
51 And Jesus spoke again and said to him: Truly, truly, I say to you, henceforth you will see the heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of man.
