1 After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee. For he did not want to walk in Judea, because the Jews wanted to kill him. 
2 Now the Jewish feast of tabernacles was near. 
3 Therefore his brothers said to him: Depart from here and go into Judea, so that your disciples also may see the works that you are doing. 
4 For there is no one who does things in secret when he desires to make his message known. If you do these things, then show yourself to the world. 
5 For even his brothers did not believe in him. 
6 And Jesus said to them: My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. 
7 The world cannot hate you, but the world hates me because I testify that its works are evil. 
8 Go up to this feast. As for me, I will not go up because my time has not yet come. 
9 After Jesus had said those words to them, he remained in Galilee. 
10 But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. 
11 And the Jews were seeking him at the feast, and they were saying: Where is he. 
12 And there was much murmurings among the people concerning him. Some were saying, 'He is a good man', and others were saying, 'No, he is misleading the people'. 
13 However, no one was speaking openly of him for fear of the Jews. 
14 And when the feast reached half of its duration, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. 
15 And the Jews were amazed, and they were saying: How does this man know the scriptures which he has never studied. 
16 And Jesus answered and said to them: My doctrine is not from me, but from the one who has sent me. 
17 If anyone wants to do his will, then he will know whether this doctrine comes from God or whether I speak on my own. 
18 He who speaks by himself seeks his own glory. But he who seeks the glory of the one who has sent him is true, and there is no injustice in him. 
19 Has not Moses given you the law. But none of you keeps the law. Why are you seeking to kill me. 
20 And the people [who were listening to him] answered and said: You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you. 
21 And Jesus answered and said to them: I have done one work, and you are all surprised. 
22 Moses gave you circumcision [in the written law, in the book of Genesis that he has written]. And it does not come from Moses, but from the patriarchs, and you circumcise a man on the sabbath. 
23 If a man receives circumcision on a sabbath day, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, then why are you angry with me when I heal all the parts of the body of a man on a sabbath day. 
24 Judge not according to appearances, but judge righteously. 
25 And some of the inhabitants of Jerusalem said: Is not this the one whom they are seeking to kill. [That is to say, the one whom some of the religious leaders want to kill.] 
26 And behold, he speaks freely, and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers acknowledged that this is the Christ. 
27 But we know where this man comes from. And when the Christ comes, no one will know where he is from. [That is to say, we will know his city of origin, but we will not know exactly who his two parents are.] 
28 And Jesus was teaching in the temple, and then he cried out: You say that you know me, and that you know where I come from. Know that I have not come to teach on my own initiative, and the one who has sent me is true, but you do not know him. 
29 And I know him. For I have come from him, and he has sent me [to teach]. 
30 Then they sought to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come. 
31 But many of the crowd believed in him [that is to say, they believed that he was speaking truthfully], and they were saying: When the Christ comes, will he do more miracles than those that this man has done. 
32 And the Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about him. And the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him [to prevent him from creating a false belief among the people]. 
33 Then Jesus said to them: I will be with you a little while longer, and then I will go to the one who has sent me. 
34 You will seek me, and you will not find me, and you will not be able to come where I will be. [That is to say, you will not be able to come there because you do not want to give up your sins and understand what the love of God means.]
35 Then the Jews said among themselves: Where will he go, so that we cannot find him. Will he go to those who are dispersed among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks. 
36 What is the meaning of these words that he has said: You will seek me, and you will not find me, and you cannot come where I will be. 
37 And on the last day of the feast, which is a great day, Jesus stood and cried out: If anyone is thirsty, then let him come to me and drink. [Now Jesus is saying that he is like a source of water.]
38 If someone believes in me, then rivers of the water of life will flow out of his belly as the scripture has said. [Now Jesus is saying that he is the fountain of the water of life that was mentioned by the prophets Ezekiel and Jeremiah.]
39 Now Jesus was speaking of the Spirit, which those who believed in him were to receive. For the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified. 
40 And when the people heard those words of Jesus, some of them said, 'This is truly the prophet'. Others said, 'This is the Christ'. [Now they have spoken thus despite the fact that they did not understand the true meaning of those words of Jesus. They may have made a connection with the waters that will flow from the temple of God and give life to all things according to last vision of Ezekiel concerning the temple of God, but they could not understand its full meaning since the Spirit had not yet been given into the world, since Jesus had not yet been glorified.] 
41 But some others said: Will the Christ come from Galilee. 
42 Does not the scripture say that the Christ will come from the seed of David, and from Bethlehem the village where David was. 
43 So there was a division among the people because of him. 
44 And some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him.
45 Then the officers returned to the chief priests and the Pharisees. And they said to the officers: Why have you not brought him. 
46 And the officers answered: Never has anyone spoken like this man [that is to say, we have never heard anyone say such amazing things]. 
47 And the Pharisees said to them: Have you also been deceived [by thinking that he can say interesting things]. 
48 Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed in him. [That is to say, why do you want to believe in his message when you see that none of those who teach you the knowledge of God believe in him.] 
49 But those people who do not know the law are accursed. 
50 Now Nicodemus who had come to Jesus by night was one of them, and he spoke to them with the following words. 
51 Does our law allow us to condemn a man before hearing him and knowing what he has done. 
52 And they answered and said to him: Are you also from Galilee. Examine, and you will see that no prophet arises from Galilee.
53 .
