1 After Jesus had spoken those words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said: Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, so that your Son may glorify you. 
2 According to the fact that you have given him power over all flesh, so that he may give eternal life to all those whom you have given him. 
3 And now, eternal life for them is to know you, you the only true God, and to know Jesus Christ whom you have sent. 
4 I have glorified you on the earth, I have finished the work which you have given me to do. 
5 And now, Father, glorify me with yourself with the glory that I had with you before the creation of the world. 
6 I have declared your name to the men whom you have given me from the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me, and they have kept your word. 
7 Now they know that all the power that you have given me comes from you. [That is to say, they know that I act through your holy spirit and not through an evil spirit coming from you.] 
8 For I have given them the words that you have given me, and they have received those words, and they have truly known that I have come from you, and they have believed that you have sent me. 
9 It is for them that I pray. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me. For they are yours. 
10 And what is mine is yours, and what is yours is mine, and I am glorified in them. 
11 I am no longer in the world, and I am coming to you, but my disciples are in the world. Holy Father, keep in your name those whom you have given me, so that they may be one as we are. 
12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. I have kept those whom you have given me, and not one of them has been lost except the son of perdition, so that the scripture might be fulfilled. 
13 And now I come to you, and I speak these things in the world so that they may have my perfect joy in themselves. 
14 I have given them your word, and the world has hated them. This happened because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
15 I am not asking you to take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. 
16 They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
17 Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. 
18 As you have sent me into the world, so I have also sent them into the world. 
19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, so that they too may be sanctified by the truth. 
20 I do not pray only for these disciples who are here with me, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. 
21 So that they all may be one, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. So that they also may be one in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. 
22 I have given them the glory that you have given me, so that they may be one as we are one. [That is to say, soon they will know you as I know you.] 
23 I in them, and you in me, so that they may be brought to perfection into one, so that the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them just as you have loved me. 
24 Father, I want those whom you have given me to be with me where I am [that is to say, where I am going], so that they may see my glory which you have given me. For you have loved me before the foundation of the world. 
25 O righteous Father, the world has not known you, but I have known you and my disciples have known that you have sent me. [And this is how the perfect knowledge of God spreads throughout the world. The one who gains accurate knowledge of the Father is the one who believes that it was the Father who sent Jesus Christ, and this belief comes from understanding the message that was taught by Jesus. The inhabitants of the town of the Samaritan woman had believed with simplicity simply by hearing Jesus speak, by understanding what he was asking them to do to worship the one true God.] 
26 I have declared your name to them, and will declare it, so that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them.
