1 And the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that he was making and baptizing more disciples than John. 
2 Jesus himself was not baptizing, for it was his disciples who were doing it. 
3 And he left Judea, and returned to Galilee. 
4 On the way to Galilee, he had to go through the country of Samaria. 
5 And he came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 
6 And the well of Jacob was there. And Jesus was tired because of his journey, and he sat near the well. It was about the sixth hour. 
7 And a woman of Samaria came there to draw water, and Jesus said to her: Give me a drink. 
8 For his disciples had gone away into the city, in order to buy food.
9 And the woman of Samaria said to him: How is it that you, being a Jew, are asking me to give you a drink, I who am a woman of Samaria. 
10 She said this because Jews do not interact with Samaritans [since Jews consider that Samaritans have perverted the law given by Moses and have become idolaters]. And Jesus answered and said to her: If you knew the gift of God, and if you knew who is the one who has said to you, 'Give me a drink', then you would have asked of him, and he would have given you the water of life. 
11 Then the woman said to him: Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then will you get that water of life. 
12 Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us the well. And he himself drank from it, and also his children and his cattle. 
13 And Jesus answered and said to her: Whoever drinks of this water will still be thirsty after a while. 
14 But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. For the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. 
15 And the woman said to him: Sir, give me of that water. And thus I will not be thirsty again, and I will no longer come here to draw water. 
16 And Jesus said to her: Go and call your husband, and come here. 
17 And the woman answered and said to him, 'I have no husband'. And Jesus said to her: You have spoken well when you have said, 'I have no husband'. 
18 For you have had five husbands, and the one whom you have now is not your husband. You have spoken truly concerning this thing. 
19 And the woman said to him: Sir, I see that you are a prophet. 
20 Our fathers worshipped on this mountain. But you the Jews, you say that the place where the people [of the children of Jacob] must worship is in Jerusalem. 
21 And Jesus said to her: Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem.
22 You worship what you do not know, while we worship what we know. For salvation comes from the Jews. 
23 But the hour is coming, and it is already the time, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For it is such worshipers that the Father desires. 
24 God is a spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. 
25 And the woman said to him: I know that the Messiah will come, the one who is called Christ. He will tell us all things when he comes. 
26 And Jesus said to her: I am that person, I who speak to you. 
27 And the disciples of Jesus arrived, and they were amazed that he was speaking with a woman. But none of them said, 'What are you asking' or 'Why are you talking with her'. 
28 And the woman left her waterpot, and went into the city to announce what had happened. 
29 And she said to the people: Come to see a man who has told me all things that I ever did. Is not he the Christ. 
30 Then they went out of the city, and came to Jesus. 
31 Meanwhile, his disciples urged him to eat by saying: Master, eat. 
32 But he said to them: I have a food to eat, and you do not know what it is. 
33 Then the disciples said to one another: Has anyone brought him something to eat. 
34 And Jesus said to them: My food is to do the will of the one who has sent me, and to finish his work. 
35 Do you not say after planting a certain seed, 'We must still wait four months, and then the time of harvest will come'. And behold, I say to you, open your eyes and see the fields which are already ripe for harvest. 
36 He who reaps receives a reward, and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that both he who had sown and he who reaps may rejoice together. 
37 For in this the saying is true: One sows, and another reaps. 
38 I have sent you to reap what you have not labored [when you were baptizing the people with the baptism of John in my presence]. Others had labored, and you have entered into their labors. 
39 Now many of the Samaritans from that city believed in Jesus because of the following declaration of the woman: He has told me all things that I ever did. 
40 Therefore when the Samaritans came to him, they begged him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. 
41 And many more believed because of the things that he was telling them. 
42 And they said to the woman: It is no longer because of what you have said that we believe. For we have heard him ourselves, and we know that he is indeed the savior of the world. 
43 And after two days, Jesus departed from there and went to Galilee. 
44 And Jesus himself said that a prophet is not honored in his own country. [For the Samaritans understood with simplicity that his message was worthy of being received and deserved to be universal, while it is not even mentioned that he has performed any miracle among them. But concerning the Jews, they hope to see successions of miracles and have difficulty accepting the message even after having seen miracles.] 
45 And when he arrived in Galilee, he was welcomed by the Galileans who had seen all the things that he had done at Jerusalem during the feast [of the Passover]. For they also had gone to the feast. 
46 And Jesus returned to Cana of Galilee, where he had turned the water into wine. 
47 Now there was a certain nobleman in Capernaum, and his son was sick. And when he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to Jesus and begged him to come down and heal his son. For that son was at the point of death. 
48 And Jesus said to him: Unless you [the Jewish people] see signs and wonders, you will not believe. 
49 And the nobleman said to him: Sir, [I beseech you to] come down before my son dies. 
50 And Jesus said to him, 'Go your way. Your son lives'. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken to him, and he went his way. 
51 And while he was on the way to his house, his servants came to meet him and to say to him: Your son lives. 
52 And he asked them when his son had started to feel better. And they told him: The fever left him yesterday at the seventh hour. [Now we see that Jesus is right in saying that these Jews need miracles to believe. For the noble man is not satisfied with knowing that his son is healed, since he wants to know when the healing of his son took place in order to evaluate the power of Jesus through his rapidity to fulfill his word. This father would therefore have felt a disappointment if the healing of his son had occurred only while he was on the way to his house.] 
53 And the father recognized that it happened at that hour in which Jesus had said to him, 'Your son lives'. And he believed, and so did all his household. 
54 It was the second miracle that Jesus performed in Galilee, and it happened after he had come back from Judea [where he had done other miracles].
