1 I am the true vinestock, and my Father is the gardener. 
2 He will cut off every branch that does not bear fruit through me. And concerning every branch that bear fruit through me, he will prune it so that it may produce more fruit.
3 And now you are already pure, because of the word that I have announced to you.
4 Stay in me, and I will remain in you. The branch cannot bear fruit by itself if it does not remain connected to the vinestock [so as to form a single tree]. In the same way, you cannot bear sustainable fruits if you do not stay in me. 
5 I am the vinestock, and you are the branches. Whoever remains in me and in whom I remain will bear much fruit. For without me you can do nothing.
6 If anyone does not remain in me, then he will be thrown outside like a branch is cut off, and he will wither. And those branches will be gather and thrown into the fire, and will burn there. 
7 If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, then ask what you want and it will be granted to you. 
8 If you are my disciples, then you will bear much fruit and my Father will be glorified in this way. 
9 As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. And now, continue in my love. 
10 If you keep my commandments then you will remain in my love, just as I have kept the commandments of my Father and I remain in his love. 
11 I have told you these things so that my joy may be in you, and thus your joy will be perfect. 
12 This is my commandment: Love one another, as I have loved you. 
13 There is no greater love than this, when someone gives his life for his friends. 
14 You are my friends if you do what I command you. 
15 From now on I no longer call you servants. For a servant does not know what his master does. But I have called you friends, because I have made known to you everything that I have heard from my Father. 
16 It is not you who chose me, but I chose you. And I have appointed you so that you go and bear fruit, fruit that endures. For whatever you will ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. 
17 These are the things that I command you: Love one another. 
18 If the world hates you, then know that it has hated me before it has hated you. 
19 If you were of the world, then the world would love its possessions. But because you are not of the world, since I have chosen you in the world, therefore the world hates you. 
20 Remember the word that I have told you, 'A servant is not greater than his master'. If they have persecuted me, then they will also persecute you. If they have kept my word, then they will also keep yours. 
21 For they will do all these things to you because of my name, because they do not know the one who has sent me. 
22 If I had not come and had not spoken to them, then they would have no sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. [Here Jesus is talking about the Jews who will continue after his death according to the flesh to reject his teaching concerning the possibility of seeking to do good even on the sabbath day, and who will strive to live according to the law of Moses after the destruction of their temple will has occurred since they will be hoping for a reconstruction of this temple which is the only place where they must offer burnt offerings to God and burn incense to honor him.] 
23 Whoever hates me hates my Father also. 
24 If I had not done among them the works that no other has done [regarding the great number of miracles but also the quality since I have opened the eyes of a person who was blind from birth], then they would not have sin. But now they have seen those works, and they have hated both me and my Father. 
25 But it has happened so that this word that is written in their law may be fulfilled: They hated me without a cause. 
26 And when the Comforter has come, the one whom I will send to you from the Father, the spirit of truth who comes from the Father, he will bear witness to me. 
27 And you also will bear witness, because have been with me from the beginning.
