1 Truly, truly, I say to you, if someone does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs up some other way, then he is a thief and a robber. 
2 And the one who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
3 The gatekeeper opens to him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. 
4 And when he has brought out all his own sheep, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice. 
5 They will not follow a stranger, but will flee from him. For they do not know the voice of strangers. 
6 Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what was the meaning of what he had said to them. 
7 Then Jesus spoke again and said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 
8 All those who have come before me are thieves and robbers, and the sheep did not listen to them. [That is to say, none of the teachings given before mine were truly satisfactory in the hearts of those who truly loved God and to whom he had not personally manifested himself.] 
9 I am the door. If anyone enters by me, then he will be saved. He will come in and go out, and will find pasture. 
10 The thief comes only to steal, or to kill, or to destroy. I have come so that the sheep may have life, and so that they may have it abundantly. 
11 I am the good shepherd. A good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. [Now Jesus is not only a good shepherd through the good quality of his teaching, but he is also the one to whom the sheep belong because he is the one through whom comes the perfect knowledge of the Father.]
12 But a hireling, who is not the shepherd, and to whom the sheep do not belong, abandons the sheep and flees when he sees the wolf coming, and the wolf raids them and scatters them. 
13 A hireling [who is not a good shepherd] flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. 
14 I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father. [That is to say, my sheep know me because my message penetrates into the innermost parts of their hearts.] 
15 And I give my life for my sheep. 
16 And I have other sheep who are not of this flock. I must also bring them, by making them hear my voice. And there will be one flock, and one shepherd. 
17 The Father loves me, because I give my life in order to take it again. 
18 No one takes it from me, but I give it of myself. I have the power to give it, and I have the power to take it again. This is the commandment that I received from my Father. 
19 Then there arose a division among the Jews because of those words. 
20 And many of them said: He has a demon, and he is mad. Why do you listen to him. 
21 And others said: These are not the words of someone who is possessed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind. 
22 Now the time came for the celebration of the feast of Dedication at Jerusalem. It was winter. 
23 And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon's porch. 
24 And the Jewish leaders surrounded him and said to him: How long will you keep us in suspense. If you are the Christ then tell us clearly. 
25 And Jesus answered them: I have already told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in the name of my Father bear witness to me. 
26 And you do not believe because you are not my sheep, as I have said it to you. 
27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 
28 And I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will take them out of my hand. 
29 My Father is the one who has given them to me, and he is greater than all. No one is able to take my sheep out of the hand of my Father. 
30 I and my Father are one. [That is to say, it is the exact understanding of the content of my message that will give the exact knowledge of the identity of the one who is your Father in your scriptures, the one who said to Pharaoh by the hand of Moses: Thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. And I say to you, Let my son go so that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, behold I will kill your son, your firstborn.]
31 Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. 
32 And Jesus said to them: I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which one of those deeds are you stoning me. 
33 And the Jews answered him by saying: We are not stoning you for a good work, but for blasphemy. For you are only a man, but you make yourself God. 
34 And Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law, 'I said, You are gods'. 
35 If he called them gods, those to whom the word of God is given, and if the scriptures cannot be broken. 
36 How then can you say to the one whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, 'You blaspheme', when I said, 'I am the Son of God'. 
37 If I do not do the works of my Father, then do not believe me. 
38 But if I do his works, then even if you do not want to believe what I say, at least acknowledge that those good works [that are done at all times and even on the sabbath days] are a sign, so that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father. 
39 Then they tried again to seize him, but he escaped out of their hand.
40 And Jesus went again across the Jordan, to the place where John had first baptized, and he remained there. 
41 And many people came to him, and they were saying: John performed no miracles, but everything that John said concerning this man was true. 
42 And many people there believed in him. [That is to say, they believed that they had to accept everything that he said to them, even though they were aware that they did not understand the full meaning of those words.]
