1 Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, and believe in me. [That is to say, believe in what I teach you concerning the will of God.] 
2 There are many dwelling places in the house of my Father. If it were not so, then I would have told you. I go there to prepare a place for you. 
3 And after I have gone to prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, so that you also may come where I am. 
4 You know the way that leads to the place where I am going. [That is to say, you know that after the death according to the flesh of the prophet Samuel his spirit was invoked by Saul the first king of Israel, and consequently both are now somewhere, but cannot be loved by God in the same way.] 
5 Then Thomas said to Jesus: Lord, we do not know where you are going. How then can we know the way. 
6 And Jesus said to him: I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 
7 If you had really known me, then you would have known my Father also. And now you know him, and you have seen him. 
8 Then Philip said to Jesus: Lord, show us the Father. That is all we need. 
9 And Jesus said to him: I have been with you for so long, and you do not know me, Philip. The one who has seen me has seen the Father. How then do you say, 'Show us the Father'. 
10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me. The words that I speak to you, I do not speak them by myself. For the Father who dwells in me does his works. 
11 Believe me, I am in the Father and the Father is in me. Believe at least because of the works [that I have done and that I will do]. 
12 Truly, truly, I say to you, the one who believes in me will also do the works that I do, and he will do greater works than these. [Now God said in the scriptures that it is our sins that prevent him from listening to us, and he also said that the sins of the parents influence the trials suffered by their children for several generations, and therefore this statement of Jesus can be fulfilled when sin has been fought and not worshipped in the world for several generations.] 
13 And everything that you will ask in my name, I will do it for you. And thus the Father will be glorified through the Son. [For the Son is the one who has made the Father known.] 
14 If you ask anything in my name, then I will do it. 
15 If you love me, then keep my commandments. 
16 And I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, and that one will remain forever with you. 
17 It is the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him and does not know it. But as for you, you know him, and he will stays with you, and he will be inside you. 
18 I will not leave you fatherless, for I will come to you. 
19 There is still a little time to wait, and the world will no longer see me. But you will see me because I live, and you also will live. 
20 In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you. 
21 Whoever has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. And the one who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. 
22 Then Judas, not Judas Iscariot but another, said to Jesus: Lord, what is the reason why you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world. 
23 And Jesus answered and said to him: If someone loves me, then he will keep my word and my Father will love him. And we will come to him, and we will make our home with him. 
24 If someone does not keep my words, then he does not love me. And this word that you hear is not mine, but from the Father who has sent me. 
25 I have told you these things while I am with you. 
26 But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and will remind you of everything that I have told you. 
27 You will inherit peace, I give you my peace. The peace that I give you is not superficial like the one that the people of the world can offer you. Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not let your hearts be anxious. 
28 You have heard how I have said to you, 'I go away, and I will come back to you'. If you were loving me, then you would have rejoiced since I have said, 'I am going to the Father'. For the Father is greater than me.
29 And now I have told you this thing before it happens, so that you may believe when it has happened. 
30 I have little time left to speak to you. For the prince of this world is coming, and he has nothing in me. 
31 And in order to let the world know that I love the Father, and that I act according to the orders that my Father has given me, get up and let us get out of here.
