1 Now there was a certain man named Lazarus who was sick. He lived in the town of Bethany, where Mary and her sister Martha lived. 
2 It was that Mary who had anointed the Lord with ointment, and had wiped his feet with her hair, and it was her brother Lazarus who was sick. [Now the author of this gospel according to John is aware of the entire text of the gospel according to Luke in which there is an event concerning the same sisters Mary and Marthe. But here the author is not referring to the event where Jesus forgave the sins of an anonymous woman in the gospel according to Luke, but rather to an event that will soon be described in this same book and that has been a very significant event in his eyes.] 
3 And the sisters sent to say to Jesus: Lord, behold the one whom you love is sick. 
4 And when Jesus heard it, he said: This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be exalted through it. 
5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 
6 And when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed two more days in the same place where he was. 
7 And after that, Jesus said to his disciples: Let us return to Judea. 
8 And his disciples said to him: Master, the Jews recently sought to stone you, and you want to return there. 
9 And Jesus answered: Are there not twelve hours in the day. If anyone walks during the day, then he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. 
10 But if anyone walks during the night, then he stumbles because the light is not in him. 
11 After Jesus had spoken those words, he said to them: Our friend Lazarus sleeps, and I go to wake him up. 
12 Then his disciples said to him: Lord, if he sleeps then he will recover. 
13 Now Jesus had spoken of the death of Lazarus, and his disciples had thought that he had spoken of a natural sleep. 
14 Then Jesus said to them clearly: Lazarus has died. 
15 And for your sake, so that you may believe [when the time comes when you understand what will be said there], I am glad that I was not there. And now, let us go to him. 
16 Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to the other disciples: Let us also go, so that we may die with him. [Now he was not talking about dying with Lazarus, but about dying with Jesus whom some Jewish leaders wanted to kill.] 
17 And when Jesus arrived at that place, Lazarus had already spent four days in the tomb. 
18 Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, at a distance of about two miles. 
19 And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary in order to console them for the death of their brother. 
20 And Martha went to meet Jesus when she heard that he was coming, but Mary remained sitting in the house. 
21 And Martha said to Jesus: Lord, if you had been here then my brother would not have died. 
22 But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will grant it to you. 
23 And Jesus said to her: Your brother will rise again. 
24 And Martha said to him: I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day. 
25 And Jesus said to her: I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even if he have died. 
26 And whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this. 
27 And Martha said to him: Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who was to come into the world. [That is to say, I believe that everything that you say is true, even when I do not understand the meaning of your words.] 
28 And when Martha had said this, she went back and secretly called Mary her sister, and said to her: The Master has come, and he is looking for you. 
29 And when Mary heard it, she got up quickly and went to Jesus. 
30 Now Jesus had not yet entered the town, and he was in the place where Martha had met him. 
31 And there were Jews who were with Mary in the house and who were consoling her, and they followed her when she got up quickly to go out. For they said: She is going to the tomb to weep there. 
32 And when Mary came where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet and said to him: Lord, if you had been here then my brother would not have died. 
33 And Jesus saw how she was weeping, she and the Jews who had come with her. Then he groaned in the spirit, and he was troubled. 
34 And he said, 'Where have you laid him'. And they said to him: Lord, come and see. 
35 And Jesus wept. 
36 Then the Jews said: See how he loved Lazarus. [Now Jesus was disturbed, not by the death of Lazarus, but by the distress of Mary.] 
37 And some of them said: He had opened the eyes of a man [who was blind from birth]. Why has he not caused Lazarus to stay alive. [Now these Jews in particular do not know that Jesus had already resurrected a person who had died. And there is also the fact that Jesus must have loved John the Baptist who bore witness to him, but John the Baptist has nevertheless been killed.] 
38 And Jesus went to the tomb, groaning in himself. It was a cave, and a stone had been placed in the entrance to close it. 
39 And Jesus said, 'Take away the stone'. Then Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to Jesus: Lord, he already stinks. For he has been there for four days. 
40 And Jesus said to her: Have I not told you that if you believe then you will see the glory of God. 
41 Then they took away the stone from the entrance of the tomb in which was the dead body of Lazarus. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said: Father, I thank you that you have heard me. 
42 I know that you always hear me, but I speak thus because of the crowd that is here, so that they may believe that you are the one who has sent me. 
43 And when Jesus had spoken thus, he cried out with a loud voice: Lazarus, come out. 
44 And the man who was dead came out. His hands and feet were wrapped in linen strips, and his face was covered with a cloth. And Jesus said to them: Unwrap him, and let him go. 
45 And many of the Jews who had come to Mary believed in Jesus at that time, when they saw this thing that Jesus had done. [That is to say, they thought that Jesus was the Christ awaited by the Jewish people, and that it was therefore necessary to accept that all his words are true even without understanding their meaning.] 
46 But some of them went to the Pharisees to tell them what Jesus had done. 
47 Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said: What will we do. For this man performs many miracles. 
48 If we let him continue to do these things, then everyone will believe in him. And then the Romans will come and destroy both our city and our nation. [For the Romans will think that we are going to revolt against their authority by designating this Jesus to reign over us, and we see that this Jesus does not intend to defend us and make us triumph against the armies of the Romans. This Jesus cannot be the Christ whom our nation is waiting for.] 
49 Then one of them, whose name was Caiaphas and who was high priest that year, said to them: You do not understand. 
50 You do not realize that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation does not perish. 
51 Now Caiaphas did not say those words by himself. For he was high priest that year, and he was prophesying that Jesus has to die for the nation [that is to say, for the Jewish people]. 
52 And not only for the nation [of the Jewish people], but also in order to gather into one [people] the children of God who were scattered. [That is to say, so that all the persons of all nations who love justice and fairness no longer serve God each with their own rituals, but may then serve God in the same way when they understand the exact teaching of the message that Jesus has created in the world.] 
53 And from that day on, they resolved to put Jesus to death. [For they agreed that Jesus was a false prophet who must die so that the Romans would not destroy the Jewish people.] 
54 Therefore Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, and he withdrew to a region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and he remained there with his disciples. 
55 Now the feast of the Jews called Passover was near, and many people from the region went up to Jerusalem before the Passover in order to purify themselves. 
56 And the people were seeking Jesus there, and they were saying to one another in the temple: What do you think. Will he not come to the feast.
57 Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had declared that anyone who knew where Jesus was must tell it to them, so that they may arrest him.
