1 And six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany where Lazarus was, the one whom Jesus had raised from the dead. 
2 And they made him a supper there. Martha served the meal, and Lazarus was one of those who were at the table with Jesus. 
3 Then Mary took a pound of very expensive ointment of spikenard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. 
4 Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot who was to betray him later, spoke and said the following thing. 
5 Why has not this ointment been sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor. 
6 Now he said this thing, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief. He was the one who kept the moneybag for the group of followers, and he often stole money from that bag. 
7 Then Jesus said: Let her keep this ointment for the day of my burial. 
8 You will always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. 
9 And many people heard that Jesus was in Bethany, and they came there. They came not only in order to see Jesus, but also to see Lazarus whom he had raised from the dead. 
10 Then the chief priests planned to kill Lazarus also. 
11 For many of the Jews were withdrawing from them and believing in Jesus because of what had happened to Lazarus. [That is to say, they thought that Jesus was the Christ awaited by the Jewish people, and that it was therefore necessary to accept that all his words are true even without understanding their meaning.] 
12 On the next day, the crowds of people who had come to the feast at Jerusalem heard that Jesus was coming there. 
13 And many people took branches of palm trees, and went to meet Jesus, and cried out: Hosanna. Blessed is the king of Israel who comes in the name of the Lord. 
14 And Jesus was riding a donkey.
15 .
16 . 
17 Now many people had testified about Jesus to the crowds, many of those who had been with Jesus when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead. 
18 And it is for this reason that a large crowd came to meet Jesus, because they had heard that he had performed that miracle. 
19 Then the Pharisees said to one another: You see that we are not succeeding in prevailing against him. For lo, the world has gone after him. 
20 Now there were also some Greeks among the crowds who had come to worship [God] at the feast. 
21 And they came to Philip who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and they urged him by saying: Sir, we desire to see Jesus. 
22 And Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
23 And Jesus answered them by saying: The hour has come for the Son of man to be glorified. 
24 Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, then it brings forth much fruit. 
25 Whoever loves his life will lose it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it into eternal life. 
26 If anyone serves me, then let him follow me. And where I am, there my servant will be also. For if anyone serves me, then my Father will honor him. 
27 Now my soul is troubled. And what will I say. Should I say, 'Father, deliver me from this hour'. But it is for this very reason that I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. 
28 Then a voice came there from heaven by saying: I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. 
29 And the people who were standing there heard it. And some said that it was a thunder, and others said, 'An angel has spoken to him'. 
30 And Jesus said to the people: This voice has not come for me, but for you. [That is to say, so that you may have faith.] 
31 Now the time has come for the judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out. [That is to say, in a short time, he will begin to be driven out of the world in a progressive way until the end of time.] 
32 For I, when I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men to me. 
33 Now Jesus said this thing to indicate by what death he will die. [That is to say, he indicated that after his death in the flesh, he will continue to be alive through the fact that he will continue to act among the living.] 
34 And the people said to Jesus: We have heard from the law that Christ will live forever. How then do you say, 'The Son of man must be lifted up'. Who is this Son of man. 
35 And Jesus answered them by saying: The light will still be with you for a little while only. And if you walk while you have the light, then the darkness will not swallow you up. He who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. Believe in the light while you have the light, so that you may become children of light. 
36 Jesus said these things, and then he went away and hid himself from them. 
37 For from time to time they began to have doubts about him again, despite the fact that he had performed many miracles before them. 
38 Now it was so that the following words of the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: Lord, who has believed our report. And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed. 
39 Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah also said the following thing. 
40 He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they should see with their eyes and understand with their hearts, and be converted, and I should heal them. 
41 Isaiah said these things when he saw the glory of Jesus and spoke of him. 
42 Nevertheless there were many people who believed in Jesus, even among the Jewish leaders. But because of the Pharisees, they did not admit it for fear of being put out of the synagogue. 
43 For they loved the praise from men more than the praise from God. 
44 And yet Jesus had cried out and said the following thing: If anyone believes in me, then it is not in me that he is believing, but rather in the one who has sent me. [That is to say, he who believes in me must seek only to believe in the message that I teach.]
45 And whoever sees me sees the one who has sent me. [That is to say, the one who has sent me is the message that I teach you, the message to which you must obey and to which I myself obey completely.]
46 I have come as a light into the world, so that whoever believes in me does not remain in darkness. 
47 If anyone hears my words and does not obey them, then I do not judge him. For I have not come to judge the world, but to save the world. 
48 Whoever rejects me by not accepting my words has one who judges him. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. 
49 For I have not spoken by myself, but the Father who sent me has given me a commandment, what I should say and what I should teach. 
50 And I know that his commandment is the everlasting life. Therefore concerning the things that I speak, as the father teaches it to me, so I speak.
