1 When Jesus had spoken those words, he went with his disciples to the other side of the valley Kidron, where there was a garden into which he entered with his disciples. 
2 And Judas, the one who was to betray him, knew that place. For Jesus and his disciples had often assembled there. 
3 And Judas led there a group of Roman soldiers and of some officers [of the temple] sent by the chief priests and Pharisees, and they came there with lanterns, and torches, and weapons. 
4 Then Jesus, knowing all the things that should happen to him, came forward and said to them: Whom are you looking for. 
5 And they answered him by saying, 'Jesus of Nazareth'. And Jesus said to them, 'I am he'. And Judas, the one who was betraying Jesus, was standing among them. 
6 And when Jesus said to them, 'I am he', they stepped back and fell to the ground. 
7 Then he asked them again, 'Whom are you looking for'. And they said, 'Jesus of Nazareth'.
8 And Jesus answered: I have told you that I am he. So if you are looking for me, then let these go their way. 
9 Now Jesus said this thing so that the following word that he had spoken might be fulfilled: I have lost none of those whom you have given me. 
10 Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. The name of that servant was Malchus. 
11 Then Jesus said to Peter: Put your sword back into its sheath. Will I not drink the cup that the Father has given me to drink. 
12 Then the soldiers with their captain and the Jewish guards seized Jesus, and bound him. 
13 And they led him first to Annas. For he was the father in law of Caiaphas who was high priest that year. 
14 And Caiaphas was the one who had counseled the Jews by saying: It is expedient that one man should die for the people. 
15 And Simon Peter had followed Jesus, and so had done another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. 
16 But Peter remained outside near the door. Then the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to her who was the gatekeeper, and brought Peter inside. 
17 Then the damsel who was the gatekeeper said to Peter, 'Are you not also one of the disciples of that man'. And Peter said, 'I am not'. 
18 And the servants and the officers who were standing there had made a fire of coals, because it was cold. And they were warming themselves, and Peter stood with them and was warming himself. 
19 And the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his doctrine. 
20 And Jesus answered him: I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, where all the Jews come together continually, and I have said nothing in secret. 
21 Why do you question me. Ask those who have heard me what I have said to them. For behold, they know what I have said. 
22 And when Jesus had said those words, one of the officers who was there smote he with the palm of his hand and said: Is that how you answer the high priest. 
23 And Jesus said to him: If I have spoken evil, then show me what evil I have spoken. But if I have spoken well, then why have you smitten me. 
24 So Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest. [Now there are many chief priests, but only one high priest. The chief priests may enter the holy place of the temple in turn to burn incense before God, as the gospel according to Luke made known concerning Zechariah the father of John the Baptist, but the law of Moses commands that the high priest is the only one who must enter the most holy place of the temple once a year to meet God above the ark of the covenant of God, despite the fact that there may be among the people prophets to whom God speaks at any time. Now the ark of the covenant of God no longer exists since the time when the people returned from the Babylonian captivity and rebuilt the temple of God, but the function of high priest retains a meaning because he is also the one who must have the last word in the controversies which arise among the people, and his power is diminished by the fact that the children of Israel live within the Roman Empire.] 
25 And Simon Peter was standing there and was warming himself. And they said to him, 'Are you not also one of his disciples', And he denied it and said, 'I am not'. 
26 And one of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the one whose ear Peter had cut off, said: Have I not seen you with him in the garden. 
27 And Peter denied it again, and immediately a rooster crowed. 
28 Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the Praetorium [which is the residence of the Roman authority who had legal power to judge the inhabitants of that region]. It was early in the morning. And they themselves did not enter the Praetorium, so as not to defile themselves and to be able to eat the Passover [or more precisely the meal of the Feast of Unleavened Bread]. 
29 And Pilate went out to them and said: What accusation do you bring against this man. 
30 And they answered and said to him: If this man were not a malefactor, then we would not have delivered him to you. 
31 Then Pilate said to them, 'Take him, and judge him according to your law'. And the Jews said to Pilate, 'It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death'. 
32 Now this was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken, concerning how he was going to die. [For in the gospel according to Luke, which is a story known to the author of this gospel according to John, when Jesus was making his last journey to Jerusalem, he said to his twelve disciples: He will be delivered to the Gentiles, and they will mock him, and insult him, and spit on him. And after having whipped him, they will put him to death.] 
33 Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, and called Jesus, and said to him: Are you the king of the Jews. 
34 And Jesus answered him: Are you saying this thing on your own, or have others told it to you about me. 
35 And Pilate said: Am I a Jew. Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you to me. What have you done. 
36 And Jesus said to him: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would have fought for me and I would not have been delivered to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here.
37 Then Pilate said to him, 'Are you a king then'. And Jesus answered: You are right to say that I am a king. I have been born for this reason, I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Whoever is of the truth listens to my voice. 
38 And Pilate said to him, 'What is truth'. And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, 'I find no crime in him'. 
39 And now, it is a custom among you that I release someone to you at the Passover feast. Do you want me to release the king of the Jews to you. 
40 Then they all cried out again by saying, 'Not this man, but Barabbas'. Now Barabbas was a murderer.
