1 Now there was a man named Nicodemus, He was one of the Pharisees, and an important leader among the Jews. 
2 He came to Jesus by night, and said to him: Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher sent from God. For no one can do these miracles that you do unless God is with him. 
3 And Jesus answered and said to him: Truly, truly, I say to you, if a person is not born again then he cannot see the kingdom of God. 
4 And Nicodemus said to him: How can a person be born when he is old. Can he go back into the womb of his mother and be born. 
5 And Jesus answered: Truly, truly, I say to you, if a person is not born of water and of the Spirit then he cannot enter the kingdom of God. 
6 What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit. 
7 Do not marvel that I have said to you: You must be born again. 
8 The wind blows where it wishes. You hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. It is the same for everyone who is born of the Spirit. 
9 And Nicodemus answered and said to him: How can these things be. 
10 And Jesus answered and said to him: You are a teacher of Israel, and you do not know these things. 
11 Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak what we know and we bear witness to what we have seen. But you do not receive our testimony. 
12 If you do not believe when I told you of earthly things, then how will you believe if I tell you of heavenly things. 
13 No one has ascended into heaven except the one who came down from heaven, the Son of man who is in heaven. [That is to say, the very definition of heaven is the dwelling place of the Son of man.] 
14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent [made of brass] in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up. 
15 So that whoever believes in his message does not perish, but gets eternal life. 
16 For God has loved the world so much that he has given his only begotten Son, so that whoever believes in his message does not perish but gets everlasting life. 
17 For God has not sent his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order to save the world through him. 
18 Whoever believes in his message is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. 
19 And the judgment is that the light has come into the world, but people have loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. 
20 For every one who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds will be discovered. [That is to say, he must keep secret a part of the reasons that are the real justifications of his behavior.]  
21 But whoever acts truthfully comes to the light, so that his deeds may be discovered, because they have been done in God. 
22 After these things, Jesus and his disciples went into the land of Judea. And he stayed there with them, and baptized. 
23 And John also was baptizing at Znon near Salim, because there was a lot of water there. And people were coming there, and were baptized. 
24 For John had not yet been put in prison. 
25 And there arose a dispute between the Jews and the disciples of John, concerning purification. 
26 And they came to John and said to him: Rabbi, the one who was with you beyond the Jordan, and to whom you have borne witness, behold he is baptizing and all the people are going to him. 
27 And John answered and said: A man can receive nothing, except what has been given him from heaven. 
28 You yourselves are my witnesses that I have said: I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. 
29 The one who owns the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, who stands there and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the voice of the bridegroom. Therefore this joy that I have is made full. 
30 He must increase, and I must decrease. 
31 He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is of the earth, and he talks about the things of the earth, and he who comes from heaven is above all. 
32 He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, and no one receive his testimony. 
33 He who has received his testimony has certified that God is true. 
34 For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God, because God does not give him the Spirit by measure. 
35 The Father loves the Son, and has put all things into his hand. 
36 Whoever believes in [the message of] the Son has everlasting life. And whoever does not obey the Son will not see life, because the wrath of God remains on him.
