1 Then Pilate took Jesus and caused him to be whipped. 
2 And the soldiers plaited a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and clothed him with a purple coat. 
3 And they said to him, 'Hail, King of the Jews'. And they smote him with their hands. 
4 Then Pilate went out again and said to the Jews: Behold I bring him out to you, so that you may know that I find no crime in him. 
5 So Jesus came out, wearing a crown of thorns and a purple coat. And Pilate said to them: Behold the man.
6 And when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, 'Crucify him, Crucify him'. And Pilate said to them, 'Take him yourselves and crucify him. For I find no crime in him'. 
7 Then the Jews answered him: We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. 
8 And when Pilate heard this, he was more afraid. 
9 And he went back into the Praetorium [with Jesus] and said to Jesus, 'Where are you from'. But Jesus gave him no answer. 
10 Then Pilate said to him: You refuse to talk to me. Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you and that I have authority to release you. 
11 And Jesus answered him: You would have no authority over me if it had not been given you from above. Therefore he who delivers me to you has a greater sin.
12 From that moment on, Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out by saying: If you release him, then you are not a friend of Caesar. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar. [Now Caesar is the king of the Roman Empire who subjugated several territories to his authority, including the land that the God of Moses promised to the Jews, and Pilate is an officer of the Roman Empire.] 
13 And when Pilate heard those words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at the place called the Pavement, which in Hebrew is called Gabbatha. 
14 It was the time of the preparation of the Passover [or more precisely the meal of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for the next day was a sabbath day], and it was about the sixth hour. And Pilate said to the Jews: Behold your king. 
15 But they cried out, 'Away with him, away with him, crucify him'. And Pilate said to them, 'Will I crucify your king'. And the chief priests answered, 'We have no king but Caesar'. 
16 Then Pilate delivered him to them, to be crucified. And they took Jesus and led him away. 
17 And he bore his own cross, and came to the place called The place of a skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha. 
18 And they crucified him there, and two others with him, one on each side and Jesus in the middle. 
19 And Pilate wrote an inscription and put it on the cross, and it was written: JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
20 Many of the Jews read this inscription, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was in Hebrew, and in Greek, and in Latin. 
21 Then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Do not write, 'The King of the Jews', but write that he has said, 'I am King of the Jews'. 
22 And Pilate answered: What I have written, I have written. 
23 And the soldiers, after they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and divided them into four parts, one for each soldier. 
24 They also took his tunic which was seamless, woven from top to bottom. And they said to one another, 'Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it will be'. This happened so that the following scripture might be fulfilled, 'They divided my garments among them, and for my tunic they cast lots'. Therefore the soldiers did these things. 
25 Now near the cross of Jesus there were standing his mother and his mother's sister, and Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 
26 And when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing near, he said to his mother: Woman, behold your son. 
27 Then he said to that disciple, 'Behold your mother'. And the disciple took her into his home from that time on. 
28 After this, Jesus knew that all things had been accomplished, and he said in order to fulfill the scripture: I thirst. 
29 And there was a jar full of vinegar there. And the soldiers filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it on a hyssop branch, and brought it to his mouth. 
30 And when Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, 'It is finished'. Then he bowed his head, and breathed his last breath. 
31 It was a preparation day, and the Jews did not want the bodies to remain on the crosses on the sabbath. For that sabbath was a high day. So they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies be taken down from the crosses. 
32 Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and then of the other who had been crucified with Jesus. 
33 And when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. 
34 But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. 
35 He who saw it has borne witness, and his testimony is true. And he knows that he speaks the truth, so that you may also believe. 
36 These things happened so that the following scripture might be fulfilled: None of his bones will be broken.  
37 And another scripture says: They will look on him whom they pierced. 
38 After those things came Joseph of Arimathea. He was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, and he asked Pilate for permission to take the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave permission. So he came and took the body of Jesus. 
39 And there came also Nicodemus, the one who had come to Jesus and talked to him at night, and he brought about a weight of one hundred pounds of a mixture of myrrh and aloes. 
40 And they took the body of Jesus, and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, as it is the custom of Jews to bury. 
41 Now there was a garden in the place where Jesus had been crucified, and in that garden there was a new tomb where no one had yet been laid.
42 And they laid Jesus there, because of the preparation day of the Jews. For the tomb was nearby.
