1 The word of Yahweh came to Jonah the son of Amittai in the following words. [Jonah lived in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel.]
2 Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it. For their wickedness has come up before me. 
3 But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish, away from the presence of Yahweh. So he went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tarshish. And he paid the fare, and went down into it to go with the passengers to Tarshish, away from the presence of Yahweh. 
4 But Yahweh sent a strong wind on the sea, and a great tempest arose on the sea, and the ship was about to be broken. 
5 Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried to his god. And they threw into the sea the things that were on the ship, to make it lighter. But Jonas had gone down to the bottom of the ship, and had laid down, and had quickly fallen asleep. 
6 Therefore the shipmaster came to him and said: Why are you sleeping. Get up and call on your God. Perhaps he will remember us and we will not perish. 
7 And they said to each other: Come, and let us cast lots to know the one because of whom this disaster has come on us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. 
8 Then they said to Jonah: Tell us the reason why this disaster has befallen us. What is your occupation. Where do you come from. What is your country. And of what people are you. 
9 And Jonah answered them: I am a Hebrew, and I fear Yahweh the God of heaven who has made the sea and the dry land. 
10 Then the men were greatly afraid, and they said to Jonah, 'Why have you done this thing'. For the men knew that Jonah was fleeing from the presence of Yahweh, because Jonah had told them so. 
11 Then they said to Jonah: 'What will we do to you, so that the sea may calm down for us'. For the sea was becoming more and more tempestuous. 
12 And Jonah answered them: Take me and throw me into the sea, and the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great tempest has come on you because of me. 
13 But the men did not want to do it. And they tried to row the ship back in order to reach land, but they could not. For the sea was becoming more and more tempestuous against them. 
14 Therefore they cried out to Yahweh and said: We beseech you, O Yahweh, we beseech you, do not make us perish for the life of this man. Do not bring innocent blood on us. For you have done as it pleased you, O Yahweh.
15 Then they took Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased to be agitated. 
16 Then the men feared Yahweh exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to Yahweh, and made vows. 
17 Now Yahweh had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.
