1 And the thing displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. 
2 And Jonah prayed to Yahweh and said: O Yahweh, is this not what I said to myself when I was still in my own country. This is why I had hastened to flee to Tarshish. For I knew that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and of great kindness, and you repent from evil [when the culprit changes his behavior]. 
3 Now therefore, O Yahweh, I beseech you to take my life from me. For it is better for me to die than to live. [Now Jonah is disgusted with life because the people of Nineveh will have no proof that he was telling the truth if absolutely no evil happens to anyone. It must be known that Jonah is in a very complicated situation, because Yahweh had granted Moses the possibility of performing three different miracles in their presence in order to convince them, after Moses had said to Yahweh, 'Behold they will not believe me and they will not listen to my voice. For they will say, Yahweh has not appeared to you'.] 
4 And Yahweh said to Jonah: Are you right to be angry concerning this thing. 
5 Then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city. He made for himself a booth there, and sat under it in order to wait and to see what will happen to the city. 
6 And Yahweh God prepared a gourd plant, and caused it to come up over Jonah, in order to give shade over his head and to deliver him from his grief. And Jonah was very glad concerning the gourd plant. 
7 But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it did bite the gourd plant which then withered. 
8 And God caused a hot east wind to blow when the sun was high in the sky. And the sun became so hot on the head of Jonah that he was about to faint. Then Jonah desired the death of his own body and said: it is better for me to die than to live. 
9 And God said to Jonah, 'Are you right to be angry concerning the gourd plant'. And Jonah replied: I am right to be angry even to the death. [Now Jonah is not perfect like any ordinary human being, since he has not chosen to ask God to explain to him what he does not understand.] 
10 Then Yahweh said: You have pity on the gourd that you neither planted nor made grow. It came up in a night, and perished in a night. 
11 And you think that I should not have pity on Nineveh, that great city in which there are more than one hundred and twenty thousand people who cannot discern between their right hands and their left hands, and in which there are also many cattle.
