1 Now these are the kings of the land on the other side of the Jordan toward the rising of the sun, from the river Arnon to mount Hermon and all the plain to the east. Those whom the children of Israel smote and possessed their land. 
2 Sihon the king of the Amorites who lived in Heshbon. His dominion extended from Aroer which is on the edge of the river of the Arnon, and from the middle of the river and over the half of Gilead, as far as the river of Jabbok at the border of the children of Ammon.
3 And from the plain to the sea of ​​Chinneroth on the east, and to the sea of ​​the plain, to the salt sea on the east, the way to Beth-jeshimoth. And on the south under the springs of Pisgah.
4 They also conquered the coast of Og the king of Bashan, who was of the remaining of the giants who dwelt at Ashtaroth and Edrei.
5 He reigned in mount Hermon, and in Salcah, and in all Bashan, as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and in half of Gilead to the border of Sihon the king of Heshbon. 
6 Moses the servant of Yahweh and the children of Israel smote them. And Moses the servant of Yahweh gave their land for a possession to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to one half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
7 And now these are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the children of Israel smote on this side Jordan westward, from Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon to the mount Halak which goes up to Seir. And Joshua gave their land to the tribes of Israel for possession, according to their divisions.
8 In the mountains, and in the valleys, and in the plains, and on the hillsides, and in the wilderness, and in the south. The land of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
9 The king of Jericho, one. And the king of Ai near Bethel, one.
10 And the king of Jerusalem, one. And the king of Hebron, one. 
11 And the king of Jarmuth, one. And the king of Lachish, one. 
12 And the king of Eglon, one. And the king of Gezer, one. 
13 And the king of Debir, one. And the king of Geder, one. 
14 And the king of Hormah, one. And the king of Arad, one. 
15 And the king of Libnah, one. And the king of Adullam, one. 
16 And the king of Makkedah, one. And the king of Bethel, one. 
17 And the king of Tappuah, one. And the king of Hepher, one. 
18 And the king of Aphek, one. And the king of Lassharon, one. 
19 And the king of Madon, one. And the king of Hazor, one. 
20 And the king of Shimron-meron, one. And the king of Achshaph, one. 
21 And the king of Taanach, one. And the king of Megiddo, one. 
22 And the king of Kedesh, one. And the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one. 
23 And the king of Dor on the heights of Dor, one. And the king of the nations of Gilgal, one. 
24 And the king of Tirzah, one. All these kings were thirty one.
