1 Now Jericho was closed and barricaded because of the children of Israel. No one was going out, and no one was coming in. 
2 And Yahweh said to Joshua: Behold I have given Jericho and its king into your hands, and its valiant soldiers.
3 All the men of war among you will go near the city, and they will go all around the city once. And you will do so for six days. 
4 And seven priests will bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark. And on the seventh day you will circle the city seven times, and the priests will sound the trumpets. 
5 And when they sound long with the ram's horn, and you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all the people will shout with a loud shout and the city wall will collapse flat. Then the people will go up, each one straight before him. 
6 And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them: Take the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of Yahweh.
7 But he said to the people, Go and walk around the city, and let the armed men pass before the ark of Yahweh. 
8 And when Joshua had spoken to the people, then seven priests carried the seven trumpets of ram’s horns. And they went before the ark of Yahweh, and sounded the trumpets. And the ark of the covenant of Yahweh followed them. 
9 And the armed men went before the priests who sounded the trumpets, and the remaining of the army followed the ark. And the priests sounded the trumpets while walking. 
10 And Joshua had given this order to the people: You will not cry out, nor make your voice heard, nor let a word come out of your mouth, until the day in which I will ask you to shout. And then you will shout. 
11 So the ark of Yahweh went all around the city, and it was done once. Then they returned to the camp and spent the night there. 
12 And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took the ark of Yahweh.
13 And seven priests carried seven trumpets of ram's horns, and walked before the ark of Yahweh, and sounded the trumpets as they went. And the armed men went before them, but the remaining of the army followed the ark of Yahweh. And the priests sounded the trumpets while walking. 
14 And on the second day they went all around the city once, and they returned to the camp. They did the same for six days.
15 And when the seventh day came, they rose early in the morning, at dawn, and went around the city seven times. They did it in the same way [as the previous days] but that day they circled the city seven times. 
16 And at the seventh time when the priests sounded [long] the trumpets, then Joshua said to the people: Shout, for Yahweh has given you the city.
17 The city is an abhorrent thing to Yahweh, both it and everything that is in it. Only Rahab the prostitute will live, she and all those who are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers whom we sent. 
18 Beware only of what is abhorrent lest you make yourself abhorrent. For if you take for yourselves from what is abhorrent then this will also make the whole assembly abhorrent and trouble it. 
19 But all the silver, and the gold, and the utensils of brass and iron, all will be consecrate to Yahweh and will enter the treasury of Yahweh.
20 So the people shouted when the priests sound [long] the trumpets. When the people had heard the long sound of the trumpet, then they shouted with a great shout and the wall collapsed flat. And the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. 
21 And they completely destroyed everything that was in the city with the edge of the sword: both men and women, young and old, oxen and sheep and donkeys.
22 But Joshua had said to the two men who had spied the land: Enter the house of the prostitute, and take out the woman and all those who are with her, as you swore to her.
23 So the young men who were the spies went in and brought out Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brothers, and all those who were with her. They brought out her whole family and placed them outside the camp of Israel.
24 And then they burned the city and everything in it. But they put into the treasury of the house of Yahweh the silver and the gold, and the utensils of brass and iron.
25 So Joshua saved the lives of Rahab the prostitute and of [the members of] her father's house, and of all those who were with her. And she [her legacy] has dwelt in Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy Jericho.
26 And Joshua swore at that time by saying, Cursed be the man who will rise up to rebuild this city Jericho before Yahweh. He will lay its foundation at the cost of the life of his eldest son, and he will place its gates at the cost of the life of his youngest son. 
27 And Yahweh was with Joshua, whose fame spread throughout all the land.
