1 After the death of Moses the servant of Yahweh, Yahweh spoke in the following words to Joshua the son of Nun and servant of Moses. 
2 Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore, arise and pass this Jourdain, you and all this people, and enter the land which I give to them namely [the land which I give] to the children of Israel. 
3 Every place where the sole of your foot will tread, I will give it to you as I said to Moses. 
4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon to the great river, the river Euphrates. All the land of the Hittites even to the great sea towards the going down of the sun, it will be your border. 
5 No man will be able to oppose you during all the days of your life. I will be with you as I was with Moses. I will not forsake you and I will not fail you. 
6 Be strong and have courage, for you will divide the land as an inheritance for this people, [the land] which I swore to their fathers to give them.
7 Be only strong and of the greatest courage in order to observe and to do according to all the law which my servant Moses commanded you. Do not turn away from it to the right or to the left, in order to succeed in everything that you will undertake.
8 Let this book of the Law not depart from your mouth, but meditate on it day and night so that you may observe and do according to all that is written in it. And thus you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have success. 
9 Have I not given you this command: Be strong and have courage. Therefore do not fear and do not be discomforted, for I Yahweh your God will be with you in everything that you will undertake. 
10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people in the following words. 
11 Go through the camp and command the people by saying: Prepare your provisions, for in three days you will pass this Jordan and enter to possess the land which Yahweh your God gives you to possess it. 
12 And Joshua spoke in the following words to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to one half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
13 Remember what Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you when he said, Yahweh your God has given you rest and given you this land.
14 Your wives and your children and your livestock will remain in the land that Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan. But you will go out armed before your brothers, all the men of war, and you will help them.
15 Until Yahweh gives rest to your brothers as he has given it to you, and thus they also possess the land which Yahweh your God gives them. Then you will return to the land of your possession and possess it, the land which Moses the servant of Yahweh has given you on this side of the Jordan towards the rising sun.
16 And they answered Joshua by saying, We will do all that you have commanded us, and we will go wherever you send us.
17 We will obey you entirely as we obeyed Moses. May only Yahweh your God be with you, as he was with Moses. 
18 Whoever rebels against your command and does not obey your words in all that you command him, the same will be put to death. Only be strong and have a good courage.
