1 Then Joshua called the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
2 And he said to them: You have kept all that Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you, and you have obeyed my voice in all that I commanded you. 
3 You have not forsaken your brothers all this time until this day, but you have diligently kept the commandment of Yahweh your God. 
4 And now Yahweh has given rest to your brothers, as he promised them. Therefore now return and go to your tents, to the land of your possession which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave you on the other side of the Jordan. 
5 But be careful to do the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you. Namely to love Yahweh your God and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and to cling to him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.
6 Then Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they returned to their tents.
7 Moses had given half of the tribe of Manasseh an inheritance in Bashan, and Joshua gave the other half an inheritance among their brothers on this side of the Jordan westward. Therefore Joshua sent them back to their tents and blessed them. 
8 And he spoke to them by saying: Return with much riches to your tents, and with a great multitude of cattle, and with silver and gold, and with brass and iron, and with a great abundance of garments. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers. 
9 Then the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh, they departed from the children of Israel who were at Shiloh in the land of Canaan and they go to the land of Gilead, to the land of their possession which they had obtained according to the word of Yahweh by the hand of Moses. 
10 And when they came to the region of the Jordan that is in the land of Canaan, then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half of the tribe of Manasseh built there an altar near the Jordan, a great altar that caught the eye. 
11 When the children of Israel heard the following words: Behold the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half of the tribe of Manasseh have built an altar in the forefront of the land of Canaan, in the borders of the Jordan and on the side of the children of Israel.
12 When the children of Israel heard it, then the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered together at Shiloh to go to war against them. 
13 Then the children of Israel sent Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest into the land of Gilead to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
14 And they sent ten princes with him, one prince per father's house for each of the tribes of Israel. All were chiefs of their fathers' houses among the thousands of Israel.
15 So they went into the land of Gilead to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh. And they spoke to them in the following words. 
16 Thus says the whole congregation of Yahweh: Why have you committed such a transgression against the God of Israel. For you have turned away this day from Yahweh, by building for yourselves an altar to rebel against Yahweh as it appears this day. 
17 Is the iniquity of Peor too small for us. And to this day we have not cleansed ourselves from it, although a plague had come at that time on the congregation of Yahweh. [Now Yahweh said in his law given to Moses that children, who in those days are the main persons to carry on the legacies of their parents, may suffer the consequences of the iniquities of their parents for a few generations.]
18 You also have turned away from Yahweh today. And because you rebel against Yahweh today, therefore tomorrow he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel. [Now the written law given by Moses commanded the children of Israel to destroy every place in their territories where the inhabitants have voluntarily chosen to turn away from Yahweh the God of Israel.]
19 If you consider as unclean the land that is your inheritance, then cross the Jordan and enter the land that is the possession of Yahweh and in which the tabernacle of Yahweh dwells, and take inheritances among us. But do not rebel against Yahweh and do not separate yourself from us, by building for yourselves an altar besides the altar of Yahweh our God. 
20 Did not Achan the son of Zerah commit a serious offense in the forbidden things, and did not wrath came on the entire congregation of Israel. And he was not the only one who died because of his crime. [Now Yahweh said in the law given to Moses that it is the one who sins against him who will be erased from his book. Therefore Yahweh had used this pretext to judge some other persons.]
21 Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half of the tribe of Manasseh answered, and they spoke to the chiefs of the thousands of Israel in the following words. 
22 Yahweh is the God of gods, Yahweh is the God of gods. He knows, and Israel himself will know. If we have done this out of rebellion or transgression against Yahweh, then punish us today. 
23 If we have built an altar to depart from Yahweh, whether to offer burnt offerings or grain offerings, or to offer peace offerings there, then let Yahweh himself require it. 
24 For it was rather out of anxiety that we did this thing. And we said to ourselves: In the times to come, your children may speak to our children by saying: What have you to do with Yahweh the God of Israel. 
25 For Yahweh has set the Jordan as the boundary which separates us from you who are the children of Reuben and Gad. Therefore you have no portion in Yahweh. So it may be that your children will cause our children to cease to fear Yahweh. 
26 Therefore we said: Now we will make for ourselves an altar, not for burnt offerings nor for sacrifices. 
27 But it will be a witness between us and you, and between our descendants after us, that we will serve Yahweh as he has commanded with our burnt offerings, and our sacrifices, and our peace offerings [since the altar of Yahweh is on your side of the Jordan where we have built this testimony]. And so your children will not say to our children in times to come, You have no portion in Yahweh. 
28 Therefore we have said: If they say this thing to us or to our descendants in times to come, then we will answer: Here is the model of the altar of Yahweh that our fathers made, not for burnt offering nor for sacrifice but as a witness between us and you. 
29 Far be it from us to rebel against Yahweh and to turn away from Yahweh this day, by building an altar for burnt offerings and for meal offerings and for sacrifices [of peace offerings and of sin offerings], besides the altar of Yahweh our God which is before his dwelling place [that is to say, his movable tabernacle which had been built by the orders of Moses].
30 And when Phinehas the priest, and the princes of the congregation who were chiefs of the thousands of Israel and who were with him, when they heard these words spoken by the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the children of Manasseh, then they were very glad. 
31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh: This day we acknowledge that Yahweh is among us, because you have not turned away from Yahweh by doing this thing. Moreover you prevented the wrath of Yahweh from coming on Israel in future. 
32 Then Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest and the princes returned from the children of Reuben and of the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead. They returned to the land of Canaan to the children of Israel, and brought them the answer. 
33 And the news pleased the children of Israel. And the children of Israel blessed God, and no longer talked about going to war and ravaging the land where the children of Reuben and the children of Gad dwelt. 
34 Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad called the altar Ed, for they said: It is a witness between us that Yahweh is God.
