1 And long after Yahweh had given rest to Israel from all their enemies all around, and Joshua was very old. 
2 Then Joshua called all Israel, and their elders, and their princes, and their judges, and their officers. And he said to them, I am very old. 
3 And you have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to all these nations that wanted to fight you, and how Yahweh your God himself fought for you. 
4 Behold I have divided to you by lot the remaining nations as an inheritance according to your tribes, from the Jordan with all the nations that I have destroyed to the great sea westward. 
5 And Yahweh your God will drive them out before you, and drive them out of your sight, and you will possess their land as Yahweh your God has spoken to you. 
6 Therefore have a valiant courage, to observe and do all that is written in the book of the Law of Moses, so as not to turn away from it either to the right or to the left. 
7 Do not associate yourself with these nations, namely those who remain with you. Do not mention the names of their gods or use it while swearing. Do not serve them or worship them. 
8 But hold fast to Yahweh your God, as you have done to this day. 
9 For Yahweh has driven out before you great and mighty nations, and until now no man has stood before you. 
10 Only one of you pursued a thousand, for Yahweh your God fought for you as he said to you.
11 Therefore take heed of yourselves, so that you may love Yahweh your God. 
12 For if you turn away [from Yahweh] or cling to the remaining of these nations who are among you, or if you unite with them in marriage  by giving them your women or taking their women. 
13 Then be sure that Yahweh your God will not continue to drive out these nations before you [when they cause you to turn away from him]. But they will be a trap and a destruction for you, a scourge in your sides and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from this good land which Yahweh your God has given you. 
14 And behold I go now by the way of all the world. And you know with all your hearts and with all your souls that none of all the good words spoken to you by Yahweh your God has remained without effect, but all have been accomplished for you and none has remained without effect. 
15 Therefore, as all the good things which Yahweh your God promised you have come to you, Yahweh will also bring every evil thing on you until he has destroyed you from this good land which Yahweh your God has given you. 
16 When you transgress the covenant of Yahweh your God which he commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and worship them, then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you and you will quickly perish in the good land that he has given you.
