1 These now are the places that the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, and which were distributed to them by Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel.
2 The distribution took place by lot, as Yahweh had commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes and for the half-tribe. 
3 For Moses had given an inheritance to two tribes and to a half of one tribe on the other side of the Jordan. But he gave no inheritance to the Levites among them. 
4 For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. So they gave no portion to the Levites in the land, except cities to dwell in, and their suburbs for their animals and their goods.
5 The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses when they divided the land.
6 Then the children of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, You know what Yahweh said to Moses the man of God concerning me and you in Kadesh-barnea.
7 I was forty years old when Moses the servant of Yahweh sent me from Kadesh-Barnea to spy the land, and I reported to him with righteousness of heart.
8 And my brothers who went up with me melted the hearts of the people, but I have fully followed the way of Yahweh my God. 
9 And Moses swore in that day by saying: Surely the land that your feet have trodden will be your inheritance and that of your children forever, because you have fully followed the way of Yahweh my God. 
10 And now behold, Yahweh has kept me alive as he promised. It has been forty five years since Yahweh spoke this thing to Moses, while the children of Israel were wandering in the wilderness. And lo now, I am today eighty five years old. 
11 And yet I am as strong at this time as I was when Moses sent me. I have as much strength as I had then, either to fight or to go out and to come in. 
12 Therefore give me this mountain of which Yahweh spoke in that day. For you heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and the cities were great and walled. And Yahweh will be with me so that I may drive them out, as Yahweh said. 
13 Then Joshua blessed Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and gave him Hebron for an inheritance. 
14 So Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite to this day, because he constantly followed Yahweh the God of Israel.
15 The name of Hebron was formerly Kiriath-arba, and this Arba was a great man among the Anakim. And the land had rest from war.
