1 The land that was attributed by lot to the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families, spread to the border of Edom and the Zin desert, to the south at the southern end.
2 And their southern border was the coast of the salt sea, from the point that looks southward.
3 And it went out southward toward Maaleth-akrabbim, and went along to Zin, and ascended by the south of Kadesh-barnea, and went along to Hezron, and went up to Addar, and turned about to Karka. 
4 And from there it went along at Azmon, and reached the river of Egypt, and the end of that coast was on the west side. This will be your southern coast.
5 And the east border is the salt sea, to the end of the Jordan. And the border on the northern quarter is from the point of the sea, and from the end of the Jordan. 
6 And this border goes up to Beth-hoglah, and goes along by the north side of Beth-arabah. And the border from there goes up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
7 And this border goes up to Debir from the valley of Achor, and towards the north, turning to Gilgal which is opposite the ascent of Adummim which is on the south side of the river. This border also goes up to the waters of En-shemesh and ends at En-rogel.
8 And from there it goes up by the valley of the son of Hinnom to the southern side of the Jebusites which is Jerusalem. This border also goes up to the top of the mountain that is before the valley of Hinnom westward and at the end of the valley of the giants northward. 
9 And the border extends from the top of the mountain to the fontain of the waters of Nephtoah, and goes to the cities of mount Ephron. And it extends to Baalah which is Kiriath-jearim. 
10 Then this border turns about from Baalah westward to the mount Seir, and goes along to the side of mount Jearim which is Chesalon on the north side. So it comes downe in Beth-shemesh, and goes to Timnah. 
11 And the border goes out to the side of Ekron northward. And it extends to Shikkeron, and goes along to mount Baalah, and stretches to Jabneel. And the ends of this coast are at the sea.
12 And the western border is to the great sea. These are the boundaries of the children of Judah on every side, according to their families. 
13 And to Caleb the son of Jephunneh, Joshua gave a portion among the children of Judah as Yahweh commanded him. It was Kiriath-arba of the father of Anak, which is Hebron. 
14 And Caleb drove out from there the three sons of Anak. Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the sons of Anak. 
15 And Caleb drove out the three sons of Anak who were there. Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the sons of Anak. 
16 Then Caleb said: Whoever strikes Kiriath-sepher and takes it, to him I will give Achsah my daughter to wife. 
17 And it was took by Othniel the son of Kenaz the brother of Caleb. And Caleb gave him Achsah his daughter to wife. 
18 And when she came to Othniel, then she exhort him to ask a field from her father. And she [went to her father and] got off her donkey, and Caleb said: What do you want. 
19 Then she replied: Give me a blessing. Since you have given me the land of the south, then give me also springs of water. And he gave her the springs above and the springs beneath. 
20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families.
21 And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Judah toward the border of Edom in the south were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur. 
22 And Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah. 
23 And Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan. 
24 And Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth. 
25 And Hazor-hadattah, and Kerioth-hezron which is Hazor. 
26 And Amam, and Shema, and Moladah. 
27 And Hazar-gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-pelet. 
28 And Hazar-shual, and Beer-sheba, and Biziothiah. 
29 And Baalah, and Iim, and Ezem. 
30 And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah. 
31 And Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah. 
32 And Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon. There are twenty nine cities and their villages [Some may be small towns and consequently considered as the villages of the largest nearby]. 
33 And in the plain were Eshtaol, and Zorah, and Ashnah. 
34 And Zanoah, and En-gannim, and Tappuah, and Enam. 
35 And Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah. 
36 And Shaaraim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim. Fourteen cities with their villages. 
37 And Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad. 
38 And Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel. 
39 And Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon. 
40 And Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Chitlish. 
41 And Gederoth, and Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah. Sixteen cities with their villages. 
42 And Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan. 
43 And Iphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib. 
44 And Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah. Nine cities with their villages. 
45 And Ekron, with its towns and its villages. 
46 And from Ekron to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages. 
47 And Ashdod, with its towns and its villages. And Gaza, with its towns and its villages. And to the river of Egypt, and the great sea was their coast. 
48 And in the mountains were Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh. 
49 And Dannah, and Kiriath-sannah which is Debir. 
50 And Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim. 
51 And Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh. Eleven cities with their villages. 
52 And Arab, and Dumah, and Eshan. 
53 And Janim, and Beth-tappuah, and Aphekah. 
54 And Humtah, and Kiriath-arba which is Hebron, and Zior. Nine cities with their villages. 
55 And Maon, and Carmel, and Ziph, and Jutah. 
56 And Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah. 
57 And Kain, and Gibeah, and Timnah. Ten cities with their villages. 
58 And Halhul, and Beth-zur, and Gedor. 
59 And Maarath, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon. Six cities with their villages. 
60 And Kiriath-baal which is Kiriath-jearim, and Rabbah. Two cities with their villages. 
61 And in the wilderness were Beth-arabah, and Middin, and Secacah. 
62 And Nibshan, and the city of salt, and En-gedi. Six cities with their villages.
63 Nevertheless the Jebusites who were the inhabitants of Jerusalem could not be driven out by the children of Judah, but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.
