1 And all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, they heard that Yahweh had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the children of Israel until they crossed. Then their hearts collapsed and there was no more courage in them because of the children of Israel. 
2 At that time Yahweh said to Joshua: Make yourself sharp knives [of stones], and go and circumcise the children of Israel a second time. 
3 Then Joshua made himself sharp knives, and he circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of Araloth [which means the hill of the foreskins]. 
4 Now this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them. All the people who came out of Egypt, the males who were old enough and who were the men of war, they died in the wilderness during the journeys that they made after leaving Egypt. 
5 For all the people who came out of Egypt were circumcised, but all those who were born in the wilderness [during their journeys] after their departure were not circumcised.
6 For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the men of war who had come out of Egypt were consumed, because they did not obey the voice of Yahweh. Those to whom Yahweh swore that he will not show them the land which Yahweh swore to their fathers to give us, a land where milk and honey flow.
7 And their sons whom he raised up in their stead are those who had been circumcised by Joshua. For they were uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised during the journey. 
8 When all the people had been circumcised, then they stayed in their places in the camp until they recovered.
9 Afterwards Yahweh said to Joshua, This day I have taken away from you the shame of Egypt. Therefore the name of this place has been called Gilgal to this day. 
10 And the children of Israel camped in Gilgal, and they celebrated the passover on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, at the plain of Jericho. 
11 And they ate of the corn of the land on the day after the passover, unleavened bread and roasted grain. They ate it on that same day. 
12 And the manna ceased on the day after they had eaten of the corn of the land. The children of Israel had no more manna from that day, and they ate of the produce of the land of Canaan that year.
13 And when Joshua was near Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold, there stood a man with a sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua approached him and said: Are you for us or for our enemies. 
14 And he answered. 'No, but I come now as a captain of the army of Yahweh'. Then Joshua fell on his face to the ground and worshiped, and said to him: What does my lord say to his servant. 
15 And the captain of the army of Yahweh said to Joshua, 'Take your shoes off your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy'. And Joshua did so.
