1 And when Jabin the king of Hazor heard this, then he sent to Jobab the king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph.
2 And to the kings who were toward the north, in the mountains and the plains toward the south of Chinneroth, and in the valleys, and on the borders of Dor westward.
3 And to the Canaanites, both east and west, and to the Amorites, and to the Hittites, and to the Perizzites, and to the Jebusites in the mountains, and to the Hivites at the foot of Hermon in the land of Mizpah.
4 And they went out, and all their armies with them. They were a multitude as the sand on the seacoast, with a great number of horses and chariots.
5 So all these kings met and encamped together near the waters of Merom to fight against Israel.
6 Then Yahweh said to Joshua: Do not be afraid of them, for at this time tomorrow I will hand them over to be killed before Israel. You will hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire.
7 Then Joshua and all the men of war who were with him came suddenly against them by the waters of Merom, and fell on them. 
8 And Yahweh delivered them into the hand of Israel. They smote them and chased them to great Sidon, and to Misrephothmaim, and to the valley of Mizpeh on the east. They smote them until there was no remaining. 
9 And Joshua did to them as Yahweh had spoken to him. He hamstrung their horses, and burned their chariots with fire. 
10 At that time also Joshua turned back and took Hazor, and smote its king with the sword. For Hazor was formerly the ruler of all those kingdoms.
11 Moreover they smote those who were there with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroying them. There was no one left alive, and he burned Hazor with fire.
12 So Joshua took all the cities of those kings, and all their kings. He smote them with the edge of the sword and utterly destroyed them, as Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded. 
13 But Israel did not burn any of the cities that were built on the hills, except only Hazor which was burned by Joshua.
14 And the children of Israel took all the spoil of those cities and the cattle for their prey, but they struck down all the people with the edge of the sword until they destroyed them, leaving none alive.
15 As Yahweh had commanded his servant Moses, so did Moses commanded Joshua, and Joshua did according to all these things. He left nothing undone of all that Yahweh had commanded Moses.
16 Joshua took all this land of the mountains, and all the south, and all the land of Goshen, and the valleys, and the plains, and the mountain of Israel, and its plain. 
17 From the mount Halak which goes up to Seir, to Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon at the foot of the mount Hermon. He took all their kings, and smote them and killed them.
18 The war that Joshua waged against all these kings was long. 
19 There was no city that made peace with the children of Israel, except Gibeon which was inhabited by the Hivites. They took all the others by struggles.
20 For Yahweh had hardened their hearts to make them fight against Israel, because he wanted to destroy them completely. Yahweh did not want to show them any mercy but to reduce them to nought, as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
21 At the same time, Joshua set out and destroyed the Anakim from the mountains. From Hebron, and from Debir, and from Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel. Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities. 
22 There remained no Anakim in the land of the children of Israel. They remained only in Gaza, and in Gath, and Ashdod. 
23 So Joshua took possession of the whole land, according to all that Yahweh had spoken to Moses. And Joshua gave it as an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. Then the land rested from the war.
