1 Then came the main fathers of the Levites to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel.
2 And they spoke to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan by saying: Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for our cattle. 
3 So the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with their suburbs, out of their inheritance according to the commandment of Yahweh. 
4 And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. And the children of Aaron the priest, who were of the Levites, they had thirteen cities by lot, out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin. 
5 And the remaining of the children of Kohath had ten cities by lot, out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of a half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
6 And the children of Gershon had thirteen cities by lot, from the families of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
7 And the children of Merari according to their families had twelve cities from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun. 
8 So the children of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities and their suburbs, as Yahweh had commanded by the hand Moses. 
9 And these are the cities that they gave from the tribe of the children of Judah and from the tribe of the children of Simeon.
10 And they were given to the children of Aaron, who are of the families of the Kohathites and of the sons of Levi, and who received the first lot. 
11 So they gave them Kiriath-arba of the father of Anak, which is Hebron in the mountain of Judah, and its suburbs all around. 
12 But the fields of the city and its villages were given to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession. 
13 And they gave to the children of Aaron the priest a city of refuge for murderers in Hebron and its suburbs. And the other cities which were given to them were in Libnah and its suburbs. 
14 And in Jattir and its suburbs, and in Eshtemoa and its suburbs. 
15 And in Holon and its suburbs, and in Debir and its suburbs. 
16 And in Ain and its suburbs, and in Juttah and its suburbs, and in Beth-shemesh and its suburbs. Nine [parts of these] cities were given out of those two tribes. 
17 And from the tribe of Benjamin they gave in Gibeon and its suburbs, and in Geba and its suburbs. 
18 And in Anathoth and its suburbs, and in Almon and its suburbs. Four cities. 
19 The total of the cities of the children of Aaron the priests was thirteen cities and their suburbs. 
20 And the other Levites of the families of the children of Kohath, who were the remaining of the children of Kohath, they had a part of the cities of their lot from the tribe of Ephraim. 
21 They gave them a city of refuge for murderers in Shechem and its suburbs on the mount Ephraim. And the other cities which were given to them were in Gezer and its suburbs. 
22 And in Kibzaim and its suburbs, and in Beth-horon and its suburbs. Four cities [from the tribe of Ephraim]. 
23 And from the tribe of Dan: in Elteke and its suburbs, and in Gibbethon and its suburbs. 
24 And in Aijalon and its suburbs, and in Gath-rimmon and its suburbs. Four cities. 
25 And of the half of the tribe of Manasseh: in Taanach and its suburbs, and in Gath-rimmon and its suburbs. Two cities. 
26 The total of the cities for the remaining of the families of the children of Kohath was ten cities and their suburbs. 
27 And for the children of Gershon of the families of the Levites, they had a part of the cities of their lot from the other half of the tribe of Manasseh. A city of refuge for murderers was in Golan with its suburbs, in Bashan. And another given city was in Beeshterah and its suburbs. Two cities. 
28 And from the tribe of Issachar: in Kishion and its suburbs, and in Daberath and its suburbs. 
29 And in Jarmuth and its suburbs, and in En-gannim and its suburbs. Four cities. 
30 And from the tribe of Asher: in Mishal and its suburbs, and in Abdon and its suburbs. 
31 And in Helkath and its suburbs, and in Rehob and its suburbs. Four cities. 
32 And from the tribe of Naphtali: A city of refuge for murderers was in Kedesh and its suburbs, in Galilee. And the other given cities were in Hammoth-dor and its suburbs, and in Kartan and its suburbs. Three cities. 
33 The total of the cities of the Gershonites according to their families was thirteen cities and their suburbs. 
34 The remaining of the Levites were the families of the children of Merari. And from the tribe of Zebulun they had cities in Jokneam and its suburbs, and in Kartah and its suburbs. 
35 And in Dimnah and its suburbs, and in Nahalal and its suburbs. Four cities. 
36 And from the tribe of Reuben: in Bezer and its suburbs, and in Jahaz and its suburbs. 
37 And in Kedemoth and its suburbs, and in Mephaath and its suburbs. Four cities. 
38 And from the tribe of Gad: A city of refuge for murderers was in Ramoth and its suburbs, in Gilead. And the other given cities were in Mahanaim and its suburbs. 
39 And in Heshbon and its suburbs, and in Jazer and its suburbs. Four cities. 
40 The total of the cities of the children of Merari according to their families, who were the remaining of the families of the Levites, was by their lot twelve cities. 
41 And all the cities of the Levites which came from the possessions of the children of Israel were forty and eight in all, with their suburbs. 
42 Each of these towns had its suburbs surrounding it. It was the same for all these cities.
43 So Yahweh gave to Israel all the land that he had sworn to give to their fathers. And they possessed it and dwelt there. 
44 And Yahweh gave them rest all around, according to all that he had sworn to their fathers. And there stood not a man of all their enemies before them, for Yahweh delivered all their enemies into their hand. 
45 Of all the good words that Yahweh had spoken to the house of Israel, none remained without effect but all were accomplished.
