1 But the children of Israel committed a transgression in the forbidden things. For Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, he took of the forbidden things. Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against the children of Israel.
2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai which is near Beth-aven, on the east of Bethel. And he said to them, Go up and spy the land. And the men went up and spy Ai. 
3 And they returned to Joshua and said to him: Let not all the people go up, for two or three thousand men will be enough to smite Ai. Do not overwhelm all the people with boredom, since the enemy are few in number. 
4 So about three thousand men set out, but they fled before the men of Ai. 
5 And the men of Ai killed thirty six men of the children of Israel. For they chased them from before the gate of Shebarim and struck them on the descent. Therefore the hearts of the people of Israel melted and became like water. 
6 Then Joshua tore his clothes, and knelt down and fell flat with his face on the ground, and stayed there until the evening before the ark of Yahweh with the elders of Israel [that is to say, before the tent of meeting]. And they put dust on their heads. 
7 And Joshua said: Alas, O Lord Yahweh, why did you bring this people across the Jordan to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites and destroy us. Why did it not please God to make us dwell joyfully on the other side of the Jordan.
8 O Lord, what will I say since Israel has turned its back on its enemies. 
9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear it. And they will envelop us and make our name disappear from the earth. If this happens then what are you doing for your great name. 
10 And Yahweh said to Joshua: Get up, why are you lying on your face like that. 
11 Israel has sinned, and they have transgressed my covenant which I commanded them. For they have taken of the forbidden thing, and they also stole it [because they did not take it openly], and they also hid it and put it with their own things. 
12 Therefore the children of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They have turned their backs on their enemies because they are loathsome. I will no longer be with you if you do not destroy the abhorrent among you. 
13 Arise and sanctify the people. You will say, Sanctify yourself for tomorrow, for thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: There is an execrable thing among you, O Israel, and you will not be able to resist your enemies until you have removed the execrable thing from your midst. 
14 In the morning therefore, you will come by tribes. And the tribe that Yahweh will choose will come by families, and the family that Yahweh will choose will come by households, and the households that Yahweh will choose will come man by man. 
15 And whoever is designated for having taken from what was forbidden, he and all his possessions will be burned with fire. For he has transgressed the covenant of Yahweh and has done an abominable deed in Israel. 
16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning and he brought Israel according to their tribes, and the tribe of Judah was designated. 
17 And he brought the families of Judah, and the family of the Zerahites was chosen. And he brought the family of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was designated. 
18 And he brought his household man by man. And Achan the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, he was chosen.
19 Then Joshua said to Achan: My son, I beseech you, give glory to Yahweh the God of Israel and make confession to him. Tell me now what you have done, do not hide it from me. 
20 And Achan answered Joshua and said: Indeed I have sinned against Yahweh the God of Israel, and this is what I have done.
21 Among the spoils I saw a magnificent garment from Babylon, and two hundred shekels of silver, and an ingot of gold weighing fifty shekels. And I coveted them and took them. Behold they are hid in the ground in the midst of my tent, and the silver is beneath them.
22 Then Joshua sent messengers who ran to the tent. And behold, it was hidden in his tent, and the silver was under it.
23 And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the children of Israel, and laid them before Yahweh. 
24 Then Joshua took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the garment, and the ingot of gold, and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his donkeys, and his sheep, and his tent, and everything that belonged to him. And he and all Israel brought them into the valley of Achor.
25 And Joshua said: As you have troubled us, so will Yahweh trouble you this day. And all Israel threw stones at him, and burned them with fire, and stoned them with stones.
26 And they threw a great heap of stones on him, which has remained to this day. And Yahweh turned away from his fierce anger. This is why the name of this place has been called The valley of Achor, from that event to this day.
