1 And Yahweh said to Joshua: Do not be afraid and do not be discouraged. Take with you all the men of war and arise, and go up to Ai. Behold I have given into your hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land.
2 You will do to Ai and its king as you did to Jericho and its king. Nevertheless you will take the spoils and the cattle for yourselves. You will set up ambushes against the city, behind it.
3 Then Joshua arose with all the men of war to go up against Ai. And Joshua chose thirty thousand strong and valiant men, and sent them out by night.
4 And he commanded them by saying: Behold you will ambush the city, at the rear of the city. Do not go far from the city, but be prepared.
5 And I and all the people who are with me, we will approach the city. And when they come out against us as they did the first time, then we will flee before them. 
6 And they will pursue us until we have driven them out of the city. For they will say, They are fleeing from us like the first time. So we will flee before them.
7 Then you will emerge from your position and destroy the city, for Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hand. 
8 And when you have taken the city, then you will set it on fire. You will do according to the commandment of Yahweh. Behold I have commanded you. 
9 Then Joshua sent them out. And they went and lay in wait, and stayed in a place between Bethel and Ai, on the west of Ai. And Joshua spent that night among the people.
10 And Joshua rose up early in the morning and numbered the people. And he and the elders of Israel went up before the people to Ai.
11 All the men of war who were with him went up and came against the city, and camped on the north of Ai. And there was a valley between them and Ai.
12 And he took about five thousand men and ambushed them between Bethel and Ai, on the west of the city.
13 After the whole camp had taken up position on the north of the city, and the ambush on the west of the city, then Joshua went out that night in the middle of the valley. 
14 And when the king of Ai saw this, then the men of the city hastened and rose early, and went out against Israel to fight. He and all his people presented themselves at the appointed time before the plain. For he did not know that a part of the enemies was in ambush behind the city.
15 And Joshua and all Israel acted as if they had been defeated before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness. 
16 Then all the people who were in the city gathered together to pursue them. They pursued Joshua and were drawn away from the city. 
17 And there was no man of war left in Ai or Bethel, for they had all gone after Israel. They left the city open and pursued Israel.
18 And Yahweh said to Joshua: Stretch out toward Ai the spear that is in your hand, for I will give it [the city] in your hands. And Joshua stretched out toward the city the spear that he had in his hand. 
19 As soon as he stretched out his hand, those who were ambushed rushed out of their place and entered the city. They took the city and hastened to set it on fire.
20 And the men of Ai looked behind them and saw it. Behold the smoke was rising from the city to the sky. And they had no power to flee to one side or another, for the people who were fleeing to the wilderness had turned back against the pursuers. 
21 When Joshua and all Israel saw that those who were ambushing had captured the city, and that the smoke of the city was rising, then they turned and killed the men of Ai.
22 The other men of Israel also went out of the city against them. So they found themselves in the middle of the army of Israel, part of it being on one side and the rest on the other side. And they were killed, so that none of them remained or escaped. 
23 But they took the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua. 
24 When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, namely in the wilderness where they had pursued them, and when they had all fallen by the edge of the sword until they were consumed, then all Israel returned to Ai and smote it with the edge of the sword.
25 And all those who fell on that day were twelve thousand, both men and women, all the men of Ai.
26 And Joshua did not lower his hand with which he stretched out the spear, until he had completely destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai [through the army under his command].
27 Israel had kept for itself only the cattle and the spoils of the city, according to the word of Yahweh which he had commanded to Joshua.
28 And Joshua burned Ai and made it a pile of ruins forever, a wilderness that remained to this day.
29 He hung the king of Ai on a tree and left him there until evening. And as soon as the sun had gone down, Joshua ordered his body to be taken out of the tree and thrown at the entrance to the city gate. And a great pile of stones was laid there, which remains to this day.
30 Then Joshua built an altar to Yahweh the God of Israel, at mount Ebal. 
31 As Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded the children of Israel, and as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, it was an altar of whole stones on which no one had lifted an iron instrument. And there they offered burnt offerings to Yahweh and sacrificed peace offerings. 
32 And there Joshua wrote on other prepared stones a copy of the law which Moses had written in the presence of the children of Israel. 
33 And All Israel, and its elders, and its officers, and its judges, they stood on both sides of the ark before the priests of the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. The foreigners were there in the same manner as those who were born in the house [of Jacob]. Half of the people were on the side of mount Gerizim and the other half were on the side of mount Ebal, according to the commandment previously given by Moses the servant of Yahweh, in order to bless the people of Israel. 
34 Afterward Joshua read all the words of the law, the blessings and the curses, according to all that is written in the book of the law.
35 From all that Moses had commanded, there was not a single word that Joshua did not read before the whole congregation of Israel. Both before the women and children, and before the foreigners who lived among them.
