1 Adoni-zedek the king of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had taken Ai and destroyed it. For as he did to Jericho and to its king, so he did to Ai and to its king. And the king also heard how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them. 
2 Then they [his people] were exceedingly afraid because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities. For it was greater than Ai, and all its men were valiant.
3 Therefore Adoni-zedek the king of Jerusalem sent the following words to Hoham the king of Hebron, and to Piram the king of Jarmuth, and to Japhia the king of Lachish, and to Debir the king of Eglon.
4 Come to me and help me, so that we may strike Gibeon. For they have made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.
5 Therefore the five kings of the Amorites gathered together. The king of Jerusalem, and the king of Hebron, and the king of Jarmuth, and the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon. And they went, they with all their armies, and besieged Gibeon and made war against it. 
6 And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua in the camp of Gilgal and said: Do not abandon your servants. Come up to us with haste, and save us and help us. For all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the mountains have united against us. 
7 And Joshua went from Gilgal, he and all the warriors with him, and all the valiant men.
8 And Yahweh said to Joshua: Do not fear them, for I have delivered them into your hand. None of them will resist you. 
9 Then Joshua suddenly came on them, after walking all night from Gilgal. 
10 And Yahweh discomfited them before Israel, and killed them by a great massacre in Gibeon, and chased them along the way to Beth-horon, and smote them to Azekah and to Makkedah. 
11 And as they fled from before Israel and were in the going down to Beth-horon, Yahweh sent great stones down on them from the sky until Azekah, and they died. There were more who died by the hailstones than those whom the children of Israel killed with the sword. 
12 Then Joshua spoke to Yahweh in the day that Yahweh delivered the Amorites to the children of Israel. And he said in the sight of Israel: Sun, stay in Gibeon. And you moon, in the valley of Aijalon.
13 And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped its movement, until the people had avenged themselves on their enemies. Is not this written in the book of Jashar. And the sun stayed in the middle of the sky and did not hasten to go down for a whole day. [As it was observed in that place at that time] 
14 There has never been a day like this one, neither before nor after, in which Yahweh heard the voice of a man [who commanded nature, without having been invited to do so and without supplication, for the occurrence of an unprecedented event]. For Yahweh fought for Israel.
15 Afterward, Joshua and all Israel with him returned to the camp at Gilgal.
16 But the five kings fled, and hid themselves in a cave at Makkedah.
17 And it was reported to Joshua by saying, The five kings have been found and are hiding in a cave at Makkedah. 
18 Then Joshua said: Roll large stones to the mouth of the cave, and put men there to guard them.
19 But you, do not stay still. Pursue your enemies and strike down the hindmost of them, and do not allow them to enter their cities. For Yahweh your God has delivered them into your hand.
20 And when Joshua and the children of Israel had finished killing them with an very great massacre until they were consumed, and the remaining of them had entered fortified cities. 
21 Then all the people returned in peace to the camp, to Joshua at Makkedah. No one [like Gibeon's people who called them for help] moved his tongue against the children of Israel. 
22 Then Joshua said: Open the mouth of the cave and bring out these five kings. Bring them to me. 
23 And they did so. They brought to him the five kings whom they had brought out of the cave: the king of Jerusalem, and the king of Hebron, and the king of Jarmuth, and the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
24 And when they had brought these kings to Joshua, then Joshua called all the men of Israel and said to the captains of the men of war who accompanied him: Come near, and place your feet on the necks of these kings. And they came near and placed their feet on their necks. 
25 And Joshua said to them: Do not be afraid and do not be discouraged, but be strong and have a good courage. For Yahweh will do this thing to all your enemies against whom you fight.
26 Then Joshua smote them and killed them, and hung them on five trees. And they remained hanging on the trees until evening. 
27 And at the sunset Joshua ordered them to be taken down from the trees and thrown into the cave where they had hidden themselves. And they placed large stones at the entrance to the cave, which have remained there to this day. 
28 And Joshua took Makkedah on the same day, and smote it with the edge of the sword. He destroyed its king and all the souls who were there, he did not let anyone escape. For he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Jericho.
29 Then Joshua went from Makkedah to Libnah, and all Israel with him. And they fought Libnah. 
30 And Yahweh also delivered it and its king into the hand of Israel. And he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were there. He did not let anyone escape, for he did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho.
31 And Joshua departed from Libnah to Lachish, and all Israel with him. And they besieged it, and attacked it.
32 And Yahweh delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel. And he took it on the second day and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were there, as he had done to Libnah.
33 Then Horam the king of Gezer came up to help Lachish. But Joshua smote him and his people, until none of his people remained. 
34 And Joshua departed from Lachish to Eglon, and all Israel with him. And they besieged it, and attacked it.
35 And they took it on the same day, and smote it with the edge of the sword. He utterly destroyed all the souls who were there on the same day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
36 Then Joshua went from Eglon to Hebron, and all Israel with him. And they fought it.
37 And when they had taken it, then they smote it with the edge of the sword: its king, and all its cities, and all the souls who were there. He left no remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon. For he destroyed it utterly, as well as all the souls who were there.
38 Then Joshua and all Israel with him went to Debir and fought against it.
39 And when he had taken it, and its king, and all its cities, then they smote them with the edge of the sword and utterly destroyed all the souls who were there. He left no remaining. As he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir and its king, as he had done also to Libnah and its king.
40 Then Joshua smote all the hill countries, and the southern countries, and the valleys, and the hill sides, and all their kings. He left no remaining, but he utterly destroyed every soul as Yahweh the God of Israel had commanded.
41 And Joshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea even to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
42 And Joshua took all these kings and their land at one time, because Yahweh the God of Israel fought for Israel.
43 Then Joshua and all Israel with him returned to the camp at Gilgal.
