1 Now Joshua was very old and Yahweh said to him: You have become old. You are advanced in years, and the country that remains for you to subdue is very large.
2 This is the land that remains: all the regions of the Philistines and all Geshuri.
3 From the Nile river in Egypt to the borders of Ekron in the north. It is a country that is considered Canaanite and that is occupied by the five princes of the Philistines at Gaza, and Ashdod, and Ashkelon, and Gath, and Ekron. And also the Avvim people. 
4 From the south, all the land of the Canaanites and the cave that is beside the Sidonians, to Aphek and to the borders of the Amorites.
5 And the land of the Gebalites, and all Lebanon eastward from Baal-gad at the foot of the mount Hermon to the entrance to Hamath.
6 All the inhabitants of the mountains from Lebanon to Misrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, I will drive them out before the children of Israel. You must only distribute it now by lot to the Israelites so that they may inherit [when they will conquer it], as I have commanded you.
7 Now therefore, divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
8 For the Reubenites and the Gadites and the other half of the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance, which Moses gave them on the other side of the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of Yahweh gave them.
9 From Aroer that is on the brink of the river Arnon, and from the city that is in the middle of the valley, and the whole plain of Medeba as far as Dibon.
10 And all the cities of Sihon the king of the Amorites who reigned in Heshbon, to the borders of the children of Ammon.
11 And Gilead, and the borders of the Geshurites and of the Maacathites, and all the mountain of Hermon, and all Bashan as far as Salecah.
12 All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei and who was of the remaining of the giants. For Moses smote them and drove them out.
13 But the children of Israel expelled neither the Geshurites nor the Maacathites, but the Geshurites and the Maacathites dwell among the Israelites to this day. 
14 The tribe of Levi was the only one to whom Moses did not give an inheritance, since the sacrifices of Yahweh the God of Israel are his inheritance, as he told him.
15 And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their families.
16 And their border extended from Aroer that is on the brink of the river Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and the whole plain that is near Medeba.
17 Also Heshbon and all its cities that are in the plain namely Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Bethbaal-meon. 
18 And Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath. 
19 And Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar on the mount of Emek. 
20 And Beth-peor, and the hills of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth. 
21 And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon the king of the Amorites who reigned in Heshbon and whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian. These princes were Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the dukes of Sihon who dwelt in the country.
22 Among those who were killed with the sword by the children of Israel was Balaam the soothsayer, the son of Beor.
23 And the border of the children of Reuben was the Jordan with its coast. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, the cities and their villages.
24 Moses also gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad according to their families. 
25 And their territory were Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead and half of the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer which is in front of Rabbah. 
26 And from Heshbon to Ramath, Mizpeh and Betonim. And from Mahanaim to the border of Debir.
27 And in the valley: Beth-haram, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon. The remaining of the kingdom of Sihon the king of Heshbon, to the Jordan and its border, to the sea coast of Chinnereth on the other side of the Jordan eastward.
28 This is the inheritance of the children of Gad, according to their families, the cities and their villages.
29 Also Moses gave an inheritance to one half of the tribe of Manasseh. And it belonged to the half-tribe from the children of Manasseh according to their families.
30 And their border was from Mahanaim, and all Bashan, and the whole kingdom of Og the king in Bashan, and all the cities of Jair which are in Bashan, sixty cities.
31 And half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, which were from the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, they were given to the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, to half of Machir's children according to their families. 
32 These are the inheritances that Moses distributed while being in the plain of Moab on the other side of the Jordan, towards Jericho eastward.
33 But Moses gave no inheritance to the tribe of Levi, for Yahweh the God of Israel is their inheritance as he said to them.
