1 And when all the people had crossed the Jordan, then Yahweh spoke to Joshua in the following words. 
2 Take twelve men from among the people, one man from each tribe. 
3 And give them this command: Take here twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, from the place where the priests' feet stood. You will take them with you, and leave them in the place where you will spend this night. 
4 Then Joshua called the twelve men whom he had chosen from among the children of Israel, a man from each tribe.
5 And Joshua said to them, Go before the ark of Yahweh your God in the midst of the Jordan, and take each of you a stone on his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel. 
6 And this will be a sign among you. And when your children will question their fathers in future times by saying, What do these stones mean to you. 
7 Then you will answer them: The waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. When it crossed the Jordan, then the waters of the Jordan were cut off. And these stones will forever be a memorial [of that event] to the children of Israel. 
8 So the children of Israel did as Joshua had commanded them. They took twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, as Yahweh had spoken to Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel. And they carried them to the place where they were to spend the night, and put them there. 
9 And Joshua also laid twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, where the feet of the priests who carried the ark of the covenant were. And it is where they have remained to this day. 
10 So the priests who carried the ark stood in the middle of the Jordan until all that Yahweh had commanded Joshua to speak to the people was finished, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. Then the people hurried and went out. 
11 When all the people had finished to pass, then the ark of Yahweh and the priests also went forward in the presence of the people.
12 And the sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and one half of the tribe of Manasseh, they went out armed before the children of Israel as Moses had commanded them. 
13 About forty thousand men equipped for war and ready to fight went before Yahweh to the plain of Jericho. 
14 In that day Yahweh exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel. And they feared him all the days of his life as they feared Moses. 
15 And Yahweh spoke to Joshua in the following words. 
16 Command the priests who carry the ark of the testimony to come out of the Jordan. 
17 And Joshua commanded the priests by saying, Come out of the Jordan. 
18 And when the priests who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came out of the midst of the Jordan, as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests were placed on the dry ground, then the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and flowed as previously on all its banks.
19 So the people went out from the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and encamped at Gilgal on east side of Jericho. 
20 And Joshua set up at Gilgal the twelve stones which they had taken from the Jordan. 
21 And he spoke to the children of Israel by saying: When your children will one day question their fathers and say, What do these stones mean. 
22 Then you will teach your children about it, and you will say: Israel crossed this Jordan on dry ground. 
23 For Yahweh your God has dried up the waters of the Jordan before you until you have crossed, just as Yahweh your God did to the red sea which he dried up before us until we have passed. 
24 So that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of Yahweh is mighty, and so that you may fear Yahweh your God always.
