1 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel met at Shiloh. Because it was there that they installed the tent of meeting after the land was submitted to them.
2 Now there remained seven tribes among the children of Israel, to whom they had not revealed their inheritance. 
3 And Joshua said to the children of Israel: For how long will you neglect to take possession of the land which Yahweh the God of your fathers gave you. 
4 Choose three men per tribe, and I will send them. They will get up and walk through the land, and trace a plan of their inheritance. And then they will come back to me. 
5 And they will divide it into seven parts. Judah will live inside his border in the south, and Joseph's house will live inside their border in the north.
6 You will describe the land in seven parts, and bring the description to me. And I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh our God. 
7 But the Levites will have no portion among you, for the priesthood of Yahweh is their inheritance. And Gad and Reuben and half of the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance on the other side of the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave them. 
8 Then the men got up and went. And Joshua commanded those who went to describe the land by saying: Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and return to me, so that I may cast lots for you here before Yahweh in Shiloh.
9 So the men went and walked through the land, describing it by cities into seven parts in a book. Then they returned to Joshua in the camp at Shiloh.
10 Then Joshua cast lots for them at Shiloh before Yahweh, and there Joshua divided the land for the children of Israel according to their divisions. 
11 And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families, and the border of their lot goes out between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. 
12 And their coast on the north is from the Jordan. And the border goes up to the side of Jericho on the north, and goes up through the mountains westward. And its ends are in the wilderness of Beth-aven.
13 And this border extends from there to Luz, to the south of Luz which is Bethel, and this border goes down to Ataroth-addar near the mountain that is on the south of Beth-horon the nether. 
14 And the border turns and surrounds the corner of the sea southward, from the mountain that is before Beth-horon southward. And its ends are at Kiriath-baal which is Kiriath-jearim, a city of the children of Judah. This is the western quarter.
15 And the southern quarter is from the end of Kiriath-jearim, and this border extends westward and comes to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
16 And this border goes down to the end of the mountain that is opposite the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is in the valley of the giants northward, and goes down to the valley of Hinnom by the side of the Jebusite southward, and goes down to En-rogel. 
17 And it extends northward to En-shemesh, and goes to Geliloth which is opposite the going up of Adummim. And it goes down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
18 And it goes along to the side opposite the plain northward, and descends into the plain.
19 Then this border extends to the side of Beth-hoglah northward. And its ends, that is to say the border, reach the bay of the Salt Sea northward and the ends of the Jordan southward. This is the southern coast.
20 The Jordan also is its border on the east. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin by its border all around, according to their families.
21 Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families are: Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and the valley of Keziz. 
22 And Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel. 
23 And Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah. 
24 And Chephar-ammoni, and Ophni, and Geba. Twelve cities with their villages. 
25 And Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth. 
26 And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah. 
27 And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah. 
28 And Zelah, and Eleph, and Jebus which is Jerusalem, and Gibeath, and Kiriath. Fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.
