1 This also was the lot of the tribe of Manasseh. For he was the firstborn of Joseph. Machir was the firstborn of Manasseh and the father of Gilead. And because Machir was a man of war, he [his descendants by his wife] got the land of Gilead and Bashan. 
2 The other [families of the] sons of Manasseh were also given a portion by lot, according to their families. The sons of Abiezer, and the sons of Helek, and the sons of Asriel, and the sons of Shechem, and the sons of Hepher, and the sons of Shemida. These are some of the male descendants of Manasseh the son of Joseph, according to their families.
3 But Zelophehad the son of Hephir, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir [by a concubine], the son of Manasseh, he had no sons but daughters. And these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
4 They presented themselves before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, and they said, 'Yahweh commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brothers'. Therefore he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father, according to the commandment of Yahweh. 
5 Ten portions fell to Manasseh, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan which is on the other side of the Jordan. 
6 For the daughters of Manasseh [more precisely these daughters of Zelophehad] had an inheritance among his sons, and the land of Gilead was for the other sons of Manasseh [more precisely the others sons of Machir].
7 So the borders of Manasseh extended from Asher to Michmethath, which is opposite Shechem. And this border extended to the right as far as the inhabitants of En-tappuah.
8 The land [around] Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but [the city of] Tappuah near the border of Manasseh belonged to the sons of Ephraim. 
9 And this border goes down to the river of Kanah, to the south of the river. And these cities of Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh. And the border of Manasseh is on the north of the river, and its ends are at the sea.
10 The south belonged to Ephraim, and the north to Manasseh, and the sea is his border. This border meets the land of Asher in the north and the land of Issachar in the east. 
11 And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher: Beth-shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of En-dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns. These last three are on the mountains. 
12 Yet the children of Manasseh could not take possession of these cities, but the Canaanites still dwell in that land.
13 However when the children of Israel were strong, then they imposed a tribute on the Canaanites but did not drive them out completely.
14 Then the children of Joseph spoke to Joshua by saying: Why have you given us only one lot and one portion for an inheritance, while we are a great people because of the blessing of Yahweh until now.
15 Joshua said to them: If you are many, then go up the forest and make a place for yourself there by cutting down the trees in the land of the Perizzites and the giants since the mountain of Ephraim is too narrow for you. 
16 Then the children of Joseph said: The mountain will not be enough for us. And all the Canaanites who dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both those who are in Beth-shean and its towns and those who are in the valley of Jezreel. 
17 And Joshua spoke to the house of Joseph, namely to Ephraim and to Manasseh, by saying: You are a great people and you have great power. You will not have only one lot.
18 Therefore the mountain will be yours. For it is a forest, and you will cut it down. And its ends will be yours, and you will drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron and though they are strong.
