1 Joshua got up early in the morning and left Shittim with all the children of Israel. They came to the Jordan and spent the night there before crossing it. 
2 And after three days, the officers went through the midst of the camp.
3 And they commanded the people by saying: When you see the ark of the covenant of Yahweh your God, and the priests of the Levites who bear it, then you will leave your place and go after it. 
4 There will be between you and it a distance of about two thousand cubits. Do not approach it, but it will show you the path that you must follow because you have not yet gone this way.
5 And Joshua had said to the people: Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow Yahweh will do wonders among you.
6 Joshua also spoke to the priests by saying: Take the ark of the covenant and go out before the people. So they took the ark of the covenant and walked before the people.
7 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, This day I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel. And they will know that I will be with you as I was with Moses. 
8 Therefore you will command the priests who carry the ark of the covenant by saying: When you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, then you will stand in the Jordan.
9 Then Joshua said to the children of Israel: Come here, and listen to the words of Yahweh your God.
10 And Joshua said: By this you will know that the living God is among you, and that he will surely drive out before you the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites.
11 Behold the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth will pass before you in the Jordan.
12 Now therefore, take from among you twelve men of the tribes of Israel, one man from each tribe.
13 And as soon as the priests who carry the ark of Yahweh, the Lord of all the earth, will place the soles of their feet in the waters of the Jordan, then the waters of the Jordan will be cut off. For the waters that come down from above will stop in a heap. 
14 So the people left their tents to cross the Jordan, and the priests who carried the ark of the covenant went before the people. 
15 And when those who carried the ark came to the Jordan, when the feet of the priests who carried the ark were dipped in the brim of the water, for the Jordan used to fill all its banks throughout the harvest period. 
16 Then the waters coming down from above stopped and rose up in a heap, at a very great distance from the city of Adam that is beside Zarethan. And the waters that went down to the sea of the wilderness, to the salt sea, were completely cut off. Then the people went to Jericho.
17 And the priests who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh stood firm on the dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, while all Israel crossed over on dry ground, until all the people had finished crossing the Jordan.
