1 And Joshua gathered together again all the tribes of Israel to Shechem. And he called the elders of Israel, and their princes, and their judges, and their officers, and they presented themselves before God. 
2 Then Joshua said to all the people, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: Your fathers dwelt beyond the great river in old times, Terah the father of Abraham and the father of Nahor, and served other gods. 
3 And I took your father Abraham from beyond the great river, and I brought him throughout the land of Canaan, and I multiplied his seed, and I gave him Isaac. 
4 And I gave Jacob and Esau to Isaac. And I gave mount Seir to Esau for a possession, but Jacob and his children went to Egypt. 
5 I also sent Moses and Aaron, and smote Egypt [with the wonders that I performed in its midst]. And when I had done this among them, then I brought you out. 
6 So I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea. And the Egyptians pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the red sea. 
7 And your fathers cried out to Yahweh, and he put a darkness between you and the Egyptians, and he brought the sea over them and it covered them. And your eyes [those among you who were very young at that time] have seen what I did in Egypt, and you dwelt a long time in the wilderness. 
8 Then I brought you in the land of the Amorites who lived on the other side of the Jordan, and they fought against you. But I gave them into your hand and you possessed their land, and I destroyed them before you. 
9 Balak the son of Zippor and king of Moab arose and fought against Israel, and he sent to called Balaam the son of Beor to curse you. 
10 But I did not want to listen to Balaam. Therefore he blessed you, and I did not deliver you into the hand of Balak. 
11 And you crossed the Jordan and came to Jericho, and the men of Jericho fought against you. Also the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I gave them into your hand. 
12 And I sent hornets before you, which drove them out before you and gave you victory against the two kings of the Amorites. For it was not because of your sword or your bow. 
13 And I gave you a land that you had not labored and cities that you did not build, and you dwelt there, and you ate vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant. 
14 Now therefore fear Yahweh and serve him with integrity and faithfulness. Renounce to the gods that your fathers served beyond the great river and in Egypt, and serve Yahweh. 
15 And if it seems evil to you to serve Yahweh, then choose this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods that your fathers served when they were beyond the great river, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell now. But I and my house, we will serve Yahweh. 
16 Then the people answered and said, Far be it from us to abandon Yahweh and serve other gods. 
17 For Yahweh our God brought us and our fathers out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and he did those great wonders before our eye. And he preserved us throughout the paths on which we went, and among all the peoples in the midst of which we have passed. 
18 And Yahweh drove out all the people before us, including the Amorites who dwelt in the land. Therefore we also will serve Yahweh, for he is our God. 
19 And Joshua said to the people: You cannot serve Yahweh, for he is a holy God and he is a jealous God. He will not forgive [without consequences] your iniquity or your sins. 
20 If you forsake Yahweh and serve strange gods, then he will turn and hurt you, and consume you, although he has done you good. 
21 And the people said to Joshua: No, because we will serve Yahweh. 
22 And Joshua said to the people: You are witnesses against yourselves, that you have chosen Yahweh to serve him. And they replied, We are witnesses. 
23 And he said: Therefore remove now the foreign gods that are among you, and turn your hearts to Yahweh the God of Israel. 
24 And the people said to Joshua: We will serve Yahweh our God, and we will obey his voice. 
25 And on that same day Joshua made a covenant with the people, and gave them an ordinance and a law in Shechem [to cling to Yahweh and to love Yahweh]. 
26 And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the Law of God. And he took a large stone, and put it there under an oak which was in the place where the sanctuary of Yahweh had been installed [the tent of meeting which had been moved from Shiloh at that time]. 
27 And Joshua said to all the people: Behold this stone will serve as a witness against us, for it has heard all the words that Yahweh has spoken to us this day. Therefore it will be a witness against you, lest you deny your God. 
28 Then Joshua sent the people away, each to his inheritance. 
29 After these things, Joshua the son of Nun and servant of Yahweh died aged one hundred and ten years.
30 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-serah which is on the mount Ephraim in the north of the mountain of Gaash. 
31 And Israel served Yahweh during all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua and who knew all the works of Yahweh that he had done for Israel. 
32 And the bones of Joseph which the children of Israel carried out of Egypt were buried in Shechem, in the parcel of ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for a hundred pieces of silver. This ground belonged to the inheritance of the children of Joseph. 
33 Eleazar the son of Aaron also died, and they buried him in the hill of Phinehas his son, which was given to him in the mountain of Ephraim.
