1 Then Joshua the son of Nun sent two men from Shittim to spy secretly and he said to them, Go and see the land, and also Jericho. So they went and entered the house of a prostitute named Rahab, and spent the night there. 
2 Then a report was made to the king of Jericho by saying: Behold, men of the children of Israel came here tonight to spy on the land. 
3 And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab by saying: Bring forth the men who came to you and entered your house, for they came to explore all the land. 
4 But the woman had taken the two men and hid them. Therefore she spoke thus: Men came to me, but I did not know where they came from. 
5 And when the door was closed at night, then these men went out. Now I do not know where they went. Hurry to pursue them and you will reach them. 
6 But she had brought them to the roof of the house and hid them with the linen stalks that she had spread on the roof.
7 So some men pursued the spies along the way to the Jordan, to the forests. And as soon as those who pursued them had gone out, they closed the door.
8 And before the spies went to bed, Rahab went up to them on the roof. 
9 And she said to the men: I know that Yahweh has given you the land. And the fear of you has come on us, and all the inhabitants of the land are dismayed because of you. 
10 For we have heard how Yahweh dried up the waters of the red sea before you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, whom you have completely destroyed.
11 And when we heard it, our hearts collapsed and there was no more courage in anyone because of you. For Yahweh your God is the God in heaven above and on earth below.
12 Now therefore, I pray you, swear to me by Yahweh that as I have shown mercy to you, you will also show mercy to my father's house. And give me a true token.
13 And that you will save the lives of my father and my mother, and my brothers and my sisters, and all those who belong to them, by saving our souls from death. 
14 These men answered her: we are ready to die for you if you do not disclose our agreement. And when Yahweh gives us the land,  then we will act towards you with kindness and faithfulness. 
15 Then she let them go down by a rope through the window. Because her house was on the city wall, and she lived above the wall.
16 And she said to them, Go to the mountain lest the pursuers meet you. And hide yourselves there for three days, until the pursuers come back. And then you can go your way. 
17 These men said to her: This is how we will fulfill the oath which you have made us swear. 
18 Behold when we come into the land, then you will bind this cord of red thread in the window through which you let us go down, and you will gather in your house your father, and your mother, and your brothers, and all your father’s household. 
19 If one of them leaves the door of your house to go outside, then his blood will be on his head and we will be innocent. But if one of us hurts one of those who are with you in the house, then the blood of the victim will be on our heads. 
20 And if you disclose what concerns us, then we will be released from the oath that we have made with you. 
21 And she answered: Let it be according to your words. Then she sent them away and they departed, and she tied the red cord in the window. 
22 And they went and came to the mountain, and stayed there three days until the pursuers returned. And the pursuers looked for them through the way but did not find them.
23 So the two men descended the mountain and returned. They crossed the Jordan and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and told him everything that had happened to them.
24 They also said to Joshua, Surely Yahweh has delivered all the land into our hand. For all the inhabitants of the land are dismayed because of us.
