1 And all the kings who were on this side of the Jordan heard of these things. Those who were in the mountain and in the valleys, and all along the coast of the great sea in front of Lebanon. The Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
2 Then they gathered together to fight with one accord against Joshua and against Israel.
3 But the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai.
4 Therefore they acted cunningly, since they went by pretending to be ambassadors. They took torn and sewn up objects, namely old sacks which they put on their donkeys and old wineskins.
5 And they wore old mended shoes on their feet, and old clothes on them. And all the bread they had for food was dry and crumbled. 
6 And they came to Joshua in the camp of Gilgal, and said to him and to the men of Israel: We come from a far country. Now therefore, make a covenant with us. 
7 And the men of Israel answered these Hivites: Maybe you live in this area. How then can we make a covenant with you.
8 And they said to Joshua, We are your servants. Then Joshua said to them: Who are you, and where do you come from.
9 And they said to him: Your servants have come from a very far country because of the name of Yahweh your God. For we have heard of his fame and all that he has done in Egypt.
10 And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, to Sihon the king of Heshbon and to Og the king of Bashan who was at Ashtaroth.
11 Then our elders and all the inhabitants of our land spoke to us by saying, Take provisions in your hand for the journey and go out to meet them, and say to them: We are your servants therefore make now a covenant with us. 
12 Here is our bread which was still warm when we took it into our homes as a provision, on the day when we left to come to you. And now it is dry and crumbling. 
13 Also these wineskins which we filled were new but lo, now they are torn. Our clothes and our shoes are old because of the very long journey. 
14 Then the men of Isreal accepted the tale concerning their provisions, and consulted not the mouth of Yahweh. 
15 And Joshua made peace with them, and made a covenant with them to let them live. And the princes of the assembly also swore to them. 
16 But after three days, after making a covenant with them, they learned that these people actually came from the surrounding regions. 
17 And the children of Israel departed, and came to their cities on the third day. Their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim.
18 And the children of Israel did not kill them, because the princes [leaders] of the congregation had sworn to them by Yahweh the God of Israel to let them live. Therefore the whole assembly murmured against the princes.
19 Then all the princes [leaders] said to all the assembly, We have sworn to them by Yahweh the God of Israel. So we should no longer touch them.
20 But this is what we will do to them. For we will let them live so that a wrath does not come on us, because of the oath we made to them.
21 And the princes said to them again, Let them live but they will hew wood and draw water for all the congregation, as the princes commanded them.
22 Then Joshua called them and spoke to them by saying: Why have you deceived us. For you lived in these regions and yet you told us, Our dwellings are in a very distant place.
23 Now therefore you are cursed and none of you will be freed from being a slave, a hewer of wood and drawer of water for the house of my God.
24 And they answered Joshua by saying: Because it was told to your servants that Yahweh your God commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from your eyes. Therefore we were very afraid for our lives at your presence, and we have done this thing.
25 And now we are in your hands. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it.
26 And Joshua acted towards them as it had been decided. He delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, who did not put them to death.
27 And Joshua appointed them that same day to be hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation, and for the altar of Yahweh wherever it [the tabernacle of Yahweh] goes. This is what they have done to this day.
