1 But the children of Israel continued to do evil in the sight of Yahweh, and Yahweh delivered them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years. 
2 Then there was a man in Zorah of the family of the Danites. His name was Manoah, and his wife was barren and bore no children. 
3 And the angel of Yahweh appeared to the woman and said to her: Behold now, you are barren and do not give birth. But you will conceive and bear a son. 
4 Now therefore be careful not to drink wine or a strong drink, and not to eat any unclean thing. 
5 For lo, you will conceive and bear a son, and no razor will come on his head. For the child will be a nazirite to God from birth, and he will begin to save Israel from the hands of the Philistines. 
6 Then the woman came and informed her husband by saying: A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like the appearance of the angel of God, extremely intimidating. And I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name. 
7 But he said to me: Behold you will conceive and you will bear a son. And now you will drink neither wine nor strong drinks, and eat nothing unclean. For the child will be nazirite to God from his birth to the day of his death. 
8 Then Manoah prayed to Yahweh and said: I pray you my Lord, Let the man of God whom you have sent come again to us, in order to teach us what we will do to the child when he is born. 
9 And God heard the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God returned to the woman. She was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her. 
10 And the woman hastened and ran, and told her husband by saying: Behold the man who came to me the other day has appeared to me. 
11 And Manoah got up and went after his wife. And he came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who spoke to this woman. And he replied, Yes. 
12 Then Manoah said: Now when your word is fulfilled, then what must be observed with regard to the child, and what will we do to him. 
13 And the angel of Yahweh answered Manoah, The woman must refrain from everything that I told her. 
14 She will not eat anything that comes from the vine. She will drink neither wine nor a strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing. So she will observe all that I have commanded her. 
15 Then Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh: I pray you, let us retain you until we have made ready a kid [from the flock] for you. 
16 And the angel of Yahweh said to Manoah: Although you make me stay here, I will not eat of your bread. And if you want to make a burnt offering, then offer it Yahweh. For Manoah did not know that is was an angel of Yahweh. 
17 And Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh: What is your name. For we will honor you when your word is fulfilled. 
18 And the angel of Yahweh answered him: Why do you ask my name seeing that it is secret. 
19 Then Manoah took a kid from the flock with a meal offering, and offered it on a stone to Yahweh. And then the angel did a wonderful thing before the eyes of Manoah and his wife. 
20 For when the flame went up from the altar toward the sky, then the angel of Yahweh ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife looked at it intently, and they fell on their faces to the ground. 
21 And ​​the angel of Yahweh no longer appeared to Manoah or his wife. And Manoah understood that it was an angel of Yahweh. 
22 And Manoah said to his wife: We will surely die, because we have seen God. 
23 But his wife said to him: If Yahweh wanted to kill us, then he would not have received a burnt offering and a meal offering from our hands. He would not have made us see all these things, and he would not have told us such things. 
24 The wife of Manoah gave birth to a son and named him Samson. And the child grew, and Yahweh blessed him. 
25 And the spirit of Yahweh began to strengthen him in the land of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
