1 Then the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and Yahweh gave them into the hands of Midian for seven years. 
2 And the hand of Midian was strong against Israel. In order to escape Midian, the children of Israel have made for themselves dens in the mountains, and caves, and strongholds. 
3 Every time when Israel had sown, then the Midianites came up with the Amalekites and those of the east. They came against Israel. 
4 And they encamped opposite Israel, and destroyed the products of the land even to Gaza, and left in Israel neither food, nor sheep, nor oxen, nor donkeys. 
5 For they came up with their cattle and their tents as grasshoppers in multitude. Both they and their camels were innumerable, and they came into the land to destroy it.
6 Thus Israel was extremely impoverished by the Midianites. Therefore the children of Israel cried out to Yahweh. 
7 And when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh because of the Midianites. 
8 Then Yahweh sent a prophet to the children of Israel. And this prophet said to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: I brought you from Egypt, I brought you out of the house of bondage. 
9 And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all those who oppressed you. I drove them out before you and gave you their land. 
10 And I said to you: I am Yahweh your God, you will not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But you have not obeyed my voice. 
11 Then the angel of Yahweh came, and he sat under the oak which was in Ophrah and which belonged to Joash the chief of the Ezrites. And Gideon the son of Joash was threshing wheat in the winepress, in order to hide it from the Midianites. 
12 And the angel of Yahweh appeared to him and said to him: Yahweh is with you, valiant man. 
13 And Gideon answered him: Ah my Lord, if Yahweh is with us then why did all these things happen to us. And where are all these miracles which our fathers told us of when they said, Did not Yahweh bring us out of Egypt. Now [I think that] Yahweh has abandoned us, and he has delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. 
14 And Yahweh looked at him and said: Go with this strength that you have, and save Israel from the hands of the Midianites. Is it not I who send you. 
15 And Gideon answered him: Ah my Lord, with what will I save Israel. Behold my father is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the smallest in my father's house. 
16 Then Yahweh said to him: I will therefore be with you, and you will smite the Midianites as [if they were] one man. 
17 And Gideon said to him: I pray you, if I have found favor in your eyes then give me a sign that it is you who is speaking to me. 
18 Do not depart from here, I pray you, until I return to you. And I will bring my offering and lay it before you. Then Yahweh said, I will stay here until you return. 
19 And Gideon went in, and prepared a kid [a young goat], and made unleavened bread with an ephah of flour. Then Gideon put the flesh in a basket and the broth in a pot, and brought it to him under the oak, and presented it. 
20 And the angel of God said to him: Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and place them on this stone, and pour out the broth. And he did so. 
21 Then the angel of Yahweh stretched out the end of the staff that he had in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread. And there arose a fire from the stone, and it consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Yahweh departed from the sight of Gideon. 
22 And when Gideon perceived that it was an angel of Yahweh, then Gideon said: Alas my Lord Yahweh, for I will die because I have seen an angel of Yahweh face to face. 
23 And Yahweh said to him: Peace be on you. Do not be afraid, for you will not die [because of this]. 
24 Then Gideon built an altar there to Yahweh, and called it Yahweh-shalom [the peace of Yahweh]. It still exists today in Ophrah of the father of the Ezrites. 
25 And that same night Yahweh said to Gideon: Take your father's young bullock, and another bullock of seven year old. Then destroy the altar of Baal that belongs to your father, and cut down the grove that is near it. 
26 And you will build an altar to Yahweh your God on the top of that rock in the flat place. And you will take the second bullock, and you will offer a burnt offering with the wood of the grove which you will have cut down. 
27 Then Gideon took ten men from among his servants, and did as Yahweh commanded him. But he feared his father's household and the men of the city, therefore he did it at night and not during the day. 
28 And when the men of the city got up early in the morning, behold the altar of Baal was broken and the grove beside it was cut down. And the second bullock was offered on the altar that had been built. 
29 Therefore they said one to another, Who has done this thing. And when they had inquired and  searched, then they said: Gideon the son of Joash has done this thing. 
30 Then the men of the city said to Joash: Bring out your son and let him die, for he has destroyed the altar of Baal and cut down the grove that was near it. 
31 And Joash said to all those who had come to him: What knowledge compels you to fight in a situation where Baal is the only one to have been offended. Do you want to save Baal. Anyone who now wants to fight for Baal will die before the sun has finished rising. For if Baal is God then let him defend himself against the one who has overthrown his altar. 
32 And on that day they give to Gideon the name Jerubbaal. For they said: Let Baal fight by himself against him, since he has broken the altar of Baal. 
33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites were gathered together, with those of the east. And they went and encamped in the valley of Jezreel. 
34 And the spirit of Yahweh came on Gideon, and he sounded a trumpet, and the Abiezrites was gathered together after him. 
35 And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh who also were gathered together after him. And he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali, and they came up to meet them. 
36 Then Gideon said to God: If you will save Israel by my hand as you have said. 
37 Behold I will put a woolen fleece in the threshing floor. If only the fleece is covered with dew while the ground all around it remains dry, then I will know that you will save Israel by my hand as you have said. 
38 And it was so. For he got up early in the morning, and pressed the fleece, and wrung the dew from the fleece. And he filled a bowl of water with it. 
39 And Gideon spoke again to God and said: Let not your anger burn against me, and I will only speak this time. I would like to do a new test with the fleece, I pray you. Let the dry be only on the fleece, and let the dew be on the ground all around. 
40 And God did so on that same night. For only the fleece remained dry while the ground all around was covered with dew.
