1 Then Samson went to Gaza. He saw a prostitute woman there, and he entered her room. 
2 And it was told to the Gazites, Samson has come here. And they went and surrounded his place, and stood in ambush all the night at the door of the city. They stayed quiet all the night because they said to themselves: Early in the morning, we will kill him.
3 But Samson only stayed with the prostitute until the middle of the night. And he got up in the middle of the night and took the doors of the gates of the city, and the two doorposts, and he lifted them away with the bars that locked the doors. Then he put them on his shoulders, and carried them to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron. 
4 After that, he loved a woman near the river of Sorek. Her name was Delilah. 
5  And the princes of the Philistines came to her and said to her: Persuade him and find out his great strength comes from, and also how we can overcome himin order to bind him and to punish him. And each of us will give you eleven hundred shekels of silver. 
6 And Delilah said to Samson: Tell me I pray you, where your great strength comes from. And also what must be done to bind you and to harm you. 
7 Amd Samson answered her: If they bind me with seven green cords that have never been dried, then I will become weak and I will be like any other man.
8 And the princes of the Philistines brought her seven green cords which had never been dried, and she bonded him with them. 
9 Then some men stood in ambush in the next room and she said to him: The Philistines are on you, Samson. And he broke the cords as a dry thread breaks when it touches the fire. And they did not know where his strength came from. 
10 And Delilah said to Samson: See, you have ridiculed me and told me lies. Now I pray you, tell me how to bind you. 
11 He said to him: If they bind me with new ropes that have never been used, then I will become weak and I will be like any other man. 
12 So Delilah took new ropes with which she bonded him. Then she said to him: The Philistines are on you, Samson. Now people were standing in ambush in the next room. And he broke the ropes that were on his arms like a thread. 
13 Then Delilah said to Samson: Until now you have played me and told me lies. Tell me how to bind you. And he said to her: You only have to weave the seven braids of my head with the threads of the weft. 
14 And she fastened it with a pin, and said to him: The Philistines are on you, Samson. And he awoke from his sleep and went away with the pin of the cloth and the weft. 
15 Then she said to him: How can you say, I love you. For your heart is not with me, and you have ridiculed me these three times. You have not told me where your great strength comes from. 
16 And because she was tormenting him with her words continually, and vexing him, then his soul was eager to die. 
17 Therefore he opened his whole heart to her and he said to her: The razor did not pass on my head. For I have been a nazirite to God from my mother's womb. So if I were shaved then my strength would abandon me and I would become weak, and I would be like any other man. 
18 And when Delilah saw that he had opened his whole heart to her, then she sent and called the princes of the Philistines and said to them: Come up this time, for he has opened his whole heart to me. And the princes of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hands. 
19 And she made him sleep on her knees, and she called a man to shave the seven braids of his head. So she was the beginning of his affliction, and his strength vanished from him. 
20 Then she said: The Philistines are on you, Samson. And he awoke from his sleep and thought, I will go out now as at other times and shake myself. But he did not know that Yahweh had departed from him. 
21 Therefore the Philistines took him and put out his eyes. And they brought him down to Gaza, and bonded him with chains of brass. And he was turning the millstone in the prison. 
22 However the hair on his head began to grow again since he had been shaved. 
23 Then the princes of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice. For they said: Our god has delivered our enemy Samson into our hands. 
24 And also when the people saw him, then they praised their god. For they said: Our god has delivered into our hands our enemy who is the destroyer of our country and who has killed many of us. 
25 And when their hearts were joyous, then they said: Call Samson that he may entertain us. So they brought Samson out of the prison. He was a laughingstock to them, and then they placed him between the pillars. 
26 And Samson said to servant who led him by the hand: Lead me, that I may touch the pillars on which the house stands, and that I may lean on them. 
27 Now the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there. And there were on the roof about three thousand men and women who beheld while Samson played. 
28 Then Samson called on Yahweh and said: O Lord Yahweh, I pray you to remember me. O God, I beseech you to strengthen me only now, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. 
29 And Samson put his hands on the two middle pillars which supported the whole house and from which it was built: on one with his right hand, and on the other with his left. 
30 And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed down with all his strength, and the house fell on the princes and on all the people who were in it. So those whom Samson killed at his death were more numerous than those whom he had killed during his life. 
31 Then his brothers and all his father's house came down and took him. And they brought him up and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the tomb of Manoah his father. He had judged Israel for twenty years.
