1 There was a man of the mount Ephraim whose name was Micah. 
2 And he said to his mother: The eleven hundred shekels of silver that have been taken from you, and for which you have declared curses even in my ears, behold the silver is now in my hands because I was the one who took it. And his mother said: Blessed be my son by Yahweh. [The justification that he had in himself when he took this money was not specified and therefore one may think that it was not publicly justifiable. Therefore he has sinned in the eyes of God, like any normal human being.] 
3 And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, then she said: I had dedicated the silver from my hand to Yahweh for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image [For it was a custom in those days in order to educate the scattered communities of Israel about the history of the people of Yahweh, in the same manner that the two tribes and the half tribe built an altar only as a remembrance when they separated from the other children of Israel to go to their inheritance on the other side of the Jordan in the time of Joshua]. Now therefore, I will give it back to you. 
4 So when he had restored the money to his mother, then his mother took two hundred silver shekels from it. And she gave them to a foundry worker who used it to make a graven image [with a specific representation] and a [specific] molten image. And it was in the house of Micah. 
5 And this man Micah had a house of gods [he was looking for the right way to serve Yahweh]. He made an ephod, and [specific] teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons who then served as his priest. 
6 In those days there was no king in Israel, and each man was doing what was good in his own eyes. 
7 There was also a young man from Bethlehem of Judah, of the family of Judah. He was a Levite, and he sojourned there. 
8 And this man departed from the city of Bethlehem of Judah, to look for a suitable home. And while he was traveling, he came to the mount Ephraim to the house of Micah. 
9 And Micah said to him, Where do you come from. And he answered him: I am a Levite from Bethlehem of Judah, and I travel to look for a home that suits me. 
10 Then Micah said to him: Dwell with me, and you will be to me a father and a priest. And I will give you ten shekels of silver per year, and the clothes that you will need, and your meals and drinks. So the Levite entered the house. 
11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man was to him as one of his own sons. 
12 And Micah consecrated the Levite. And the young man was his priest, and he dwelt in the house of Micah. 
13 Then Micah said: Now I know that Yahweh will be good to me, because my priest is a Levite.
