1 Then the men of Ephraim told Gideon: What is this way of acting towards us. Why did not you call us when you went to fight the Midianites. And they had a violent quarrel with Gideon. 
2 And Gideon answered them: What have I now done in comparison with your own achievements. Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer. 
3 It is in your hands that God has delivered Oreb and Zeeb the princes of Midian. So what do my own realizations represent [in this war against Midian] in comparison to yours. And when he had spoken thus, then their anger against him was subsided. 
4 And Gideon came to the Jordan and crossed it, he and the three hundred men who were with him. They were tired but still looking for. 
5 And he said to the men of Succoth: Give, I pray you, a few breads to the people who accompany me. For they are tired, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna the kings of Midian. 
6 And the princes of Succoth replied: Are Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand. So why should we give bread to your army. 
7 And Gideon said: Therefore when Yahweh has delivered Zebah and Zalmunna in my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and also with briers. 
8 And he went up from there to Penuel, and he spoke the same thing to them. And the men of Penuel answered him as those of Succoth had replied. 
9 And he also said to the men of Penel: When I come back in peace, I will break down this tower. 
10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor with their army, about fifteen thousand men, all those who had remained of the whole army of the sons of the east. For one hundred and twenty thousand warriors had been killed. 
11 Then Gideon went up by the way of those who live under the tents at the East of Nobah and Jogbehah, and he smote the army. For they believed themselves in safety and were careless. 
12 And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, then Gideon pursued them and took Zebah and Zalmunna the two kings of Midian, and he defeated all the army. 
13 And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle when the sun was yet near its peak. 
14 And he took a servant of the men of Succoth, and questioned him. And the servant described in writing the princes and the elders of Succoth, seventy seven men. 
15 Then he came to the men of Succoth and said: Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, by whom you insulted me when you said: Are Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand. So why should we give bread to your army. 
16 And he took the elders of the city, and he tortured them with the thorns of the wilderness and also with briers in order to humiliate the men of Succoth. 
17 And he broke down the tower of Penuel, and killed the men of the city. 
18 Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna: How were the men whom you killed in Tabor. And they answered: They were like you, each of them looked like a son of a king. 
19 And he said: They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if you had saved their lives then I would not kill you. 
20 Then he said to Jether his firstborn, Get up and kill them. But the young man did not draw his sword. For he was afraid because he was still young. 
21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Get up yourself and kill us. For such is a man, such is his strength. And Gideon got up and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and he took the ornaments that were on the necks of their camels. 
22 Then the men of Israel said to Gideon: Rule over us, you and your son and your son's son. For you have delivered us from the hand of Midian. 
23 And Gideon said to them: I will not rule over you and my sons will not rule over you, but it is Yahweh who will rule over you. 
24 And Gideon spoke to them again and said: I have a request for you. I want each one to give me the earrings of his spoil [For the enemies had golden earrings because they were Ishmaelites]. 
25 And they answered, We will give them. So they extended a garment on which each man put the earrings of his spoil. 
26 And the weight of the golden earrings that Gideon asked for was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold. He had also the necklaces and the jewels and the purple garments that were on the kings of Midian, and the chains that were on the necks of their camels. 
27 And Gideon made an ephod of it and placed it in his city [for a testimony], in Ophrah. Unfortunately, all Israel used to go there to worship it and thus prostitute their souls. So it became a destruction of Gideon and his house [in the sight of God, because it was an initiative of Gideon]. 
28 So Midian was humiliated before the children of Israel [who nevertheless continued to worship this object which represented Midian]. And they [the people of Midian] no longer raised their heads [against Israel as they did before]. And the land was at rest for forty years in the days of Gideon. 
29 And Jerubbaal [who is Gideon] the son of Joash returned and dwelt in his own house. 
30 And Gideon had seventy sons begotten from his body. For he had many wives. 
31 And his concubine who was in Shechem bore him a son also, whose named he called Abimelech. 
32 And Gideon the son of Joash died in an old age. And he was buried in the sepulcher of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the father of the Ezrites. 
33 But when Gideon was dead, then the children of Israel turned away and prostituted themselves to the Baals, and they took Baal-berith for their god. 
34 And the children of Israel did not remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies all around them. 
35 And they had no respect for the house of Jerubbaal who is Gideon, after all the good that he had done to Israel.
