1 After Abimelech, a man of Issachar arose to save Israel. It was Tola the son of Puah the son of Dodo, and he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim. 
2 And he judged Israel for twenty three years, and then he died and was buried in Shamir. 
3 And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite who judged Israel for twenty two years. 
4 And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkeys. His sons had thirty cities which are called Havvoth-jair to this day, and which are in the land of Gilead. 
5 And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon. 
6 And the children of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. They served the Baals, and the Ashtaroth, and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. They forsook Yahweh, and did not serve him. 
7 Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the children of Ammon. 
8 And from that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel for eighteen years, all the children of Israel who were on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites which is in Gilead. 
9 Moreover, the children of Ammon crossed the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim. Thus Israel was in great distress. 
10 Then the children of Israel cried out to Yahweh by saying: We have sinned against you. For we have forsaken our God, and we have served the Baals. 
11 And Yahweh said to the children of Israel: Have I not delivered you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines. 
12 And you were oppressed also by the Sidonians, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites. And then you cried to me, and I saved you out of their hands. 
13 Nevertheless you have forsaken me, and you have served other gods. Therefore I will no longer save you. 
14 Go now, and invoke the gods that you have chosen. May they save you in the time of your distress. 
15 And the children of Israel said to Yahweh: We have sinned. Do with us what pleases you. Only we pray that you save us this day. 
16 Then they removed the strange gods from among them, and they served Yahweh. And the soul of Yahweh was grieved by the misery of Israel. 
17 Then the children of Ammon gathered themselves together and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered themselves together and encamped in Mizpah. 
18 And the people and the princes of Gilead said to one another: Who is the man who will begin to fight against children of Ammon. For the same will be the chief of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
