1 Then all the children of Israel went out, from Dan to Beersheba and also the inhabitants of Gilead. And the congregation gathered together as one man before Yahweh at Mizpah. 
2 And the chiefs from all the people of all the tribes of Israel presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God. They were four hundred thousand soldiers drawing the sword. 
3 And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. Then the children of Israel said: How was this wickedness committed. 
4 Then the Levite [the husband of the woman who had been killed] spoke and said: I came with my concubine to Gibeah of Benjamin in order to spend the night there. 
5 And the men of Gibeah rose up against me and surrounded the house where I was during the night. They intended to kill me, but they did violence to my concubine and she died. 
6 Then I took my concubine, and cut her into pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel. For they have committed an abomination and a despicable act in Israel. 
7 Behold you are all children of Israel. Consult, and make a decision here. 
8 Then all the people stood up as one man by saying: None of us will go to his tent, and no one will return to his house. 
9 Now this is what we will do to Gibeah. We will determine by lot which of our tribes will organize the fight against it. 
10 And from all the tribes of Israel we will take ten men out of a hundred, and a hundred out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand. And they will bring food for the army, which will then go to Gibeah of Benjamin and do to it according to all the abominations that it has committed in Israel. 
11 So all the men of Israel gathered together against the city, united as one man. 
12 And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin by saying: What is this wickedness that has been done among you. 
13 Now therefore give us these wicked men who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and thus remove evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin did not want to obey to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel. 
14 But the children of Benjamin gathered together from their cities to Gibeah, to fight against the children of Israel. 
15 And the number of the Benjamites who went out that day from their cities was twenty six thousand men drawing the sword, without counting the inhabitants of Gibeah who were seven hundred chosen warriors. 
16 Among all these people, there were seven hundred elite men who did not use their right hand. And each of them could throw a stone with the slingshot within a hair's breadth and not fail. 
17 The men of Israel were numbered on their side, without the Benjamites. And they were four hundred thousand men of war drawing the sword. 
18 And the children of Israel got up and went up to Bethel, and asked God by saying: Who among us will go up first to fight against the children of Benjamin. And Yahweh said: Judah will go up first. 
19 Then the children of Israel got up early and encamped against Gibeah. 
20 And the men of Israel went out to fight against Benjamin, and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight at Gibeah. 
21 And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day they spread on the ground the corpses of twenty two thousand men of Israel. 
22 And the people of the men of Israel took courage, and they set the battle again in array in the place where they had put themselves in array on the first day. 
23 For the children of Israel had gone up and wept before Yahweh until the evening. And they had consulted Yahweh by saying: Should I return to fight against my brothers the children of Benjamin. And Yahweh had said: Go up against them again. 
24 So the children of Israel came against the children of Benjamin on the second day. 
25 And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day. And they spread on the ground the corpses of eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all of whom were warriors. 
26 Then all the people of the children of Israel went up and came to Bethel. And they wept and sat there before Yahweh, and fasted on that day until the evening. And they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
27 For the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days [more precisely the tent of meeting, which contains the altar of Yahweh designed for ordinary offerings and inside which is placed the ark of the covenant], and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood at that time before it. [That is to say, Phinehas was the high priest in those days. Now the ark of the covenant is not used by the priest to consult Yahweh except once a year on the day of reconciliation, and it is only the ephod which is used to consult Yahweh].
28 And the children of Israel consulted Yahweh by saying: Should I once again go to fight against my brothers the children of Benjamin, or should I stop. And Yahweh said: Go, for tomorrow I will deliver them into your hand. 
29 Then Israel set men to ambush around Gibeah. 
30 And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and they put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times. 
31 And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city. And they began to smite and kill of the people like the other times. By the paths of the field, and by the path that goes up to the house of God, and by the path to Gibeah, they killed about thirty men of Israel. 
32 For the children of Benjamin said: They fall before us like the first time. But the children of Israel said: Let us flee and take them away from the city to the highways. 
33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-tamar. And the ambush of Israel rushed out from their place, from Maare-gibeah. 
34 So ten thousand chosen men from all Israel came before Gibeah, and the battle was painful. For the Benjamites did not know that evil was near them. 
35 And Yahweh smote Benjamin before Israel. And on that same day the children of Israel killed twenty five thousand and one hundred men of these Benjamites who were all warriors. 
36 And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten. For the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted in the ambush which they had set near Gibeah. 
37 And the men in ambush quickly fell on Gibeah, and they went forward and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword. 
38 And the men of Israel had also appointed a time with those who were in ambush, when they should cause a thick smoke to rise out of the city. 
39 Therefore the men of Israel had turned around during the battle when the Benjamites had already killed about thirty men. And the Benjamites said, Surely they are smitten before us, as in the first battle. 
40 But when the flame began to rise up from the city like a pillar of smoke, then the Benjamites looked behind them. And behold, the flame of the city began to rise toward the heaven. 
41 Then the men of Israel turned again, and the children of Benjamin were astonished. For they saw that evil was near them.
42 Therefore they fled before the men of Israel toward the way of the wilderness, but the battle overtook them. And those of the children of Israel who were coming out of the cities killed many among these Benjamites who were fleeing. 
43 Thus they surrounded they Benjamites and pursued them without giving them rest, as far as opposite Gibeah on the eastward. 
44 And eighteen thousand men of Benjamin were killed. All were warriors. 
45 And others turned and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon. And the Israelites surrounded them and killed five thousand men along the way. And also they pursued the Benjamites as far as Gidom, and killed two thousand men. 
46 So all those who were killed on that day among the Benjamites were twenty five thousand men drawing the sword. All were warriors. 
47 But of those who turned their backs and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, six hundred men escaped there and remained there for four months. 
48 Then the men of Israel returned to the children of Benjamin and smote them with the edge of the sword, from the men of the city to the beasts, and all that they found. They also set fire to all the cities that they found.
