1 But some time later, at the time of the wheat harvest, Samson went to his wife and brought her a kid of the flock. For he said, I will go in to my wife into her room. But her father did not allow him to enter. 
2 And her father said: I thought that you hated her [after what happened]. Therefore I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than her. Take her I pray you, in the place of the other.
3 Then Samson said to them, This time I will not be guilty towards the Philistines if I harm them.
4 Samson went and caught three hundred foxes. And he took firebrands, and made pairs of foxes by tying them tail to tail with a firebrand in the middle. 
5 And when he had set fire to the brands, then he sent them into the standing grains of the Philistines. Thus he burned both the stooks and the standing grains, and also the vines and the olive trees. 
6 Then the Philistines said, Who has done this. And they said: Samson the son in law of the Timnite, because the Timnite had taken his wife and given her to his companion. Then the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire. 
7 And Samson said to them: Since you have acted in this way [by killing my wife], then I will take revenge on you and after that I will stop.
8 So Samson killed many of these Philistines by smiting them in the hip and the thigh. Then he went and dwelt in the top of the rock of Etam. 
9 Then the Philistines went up and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi. 
10 And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up to us. And they answered, We have come up to bind Samson and do to him as he has done to us. 
11 Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock of Etam and said to Samson: Do you not know that the Philistines rule over us. Why have you done this to us. And Samson said to them: As they have done to me, so I have done to them. 
12 And they said to him: We have come to bind you and to deliver you into the hands of the Philistines. And Samson said to them: Swear to me that you will not kill with your own hands. 
13 And they answered him by saying: No, for we only want to bind you and deliver you into their hands. We will not kill you [with our own hands]. So they bonded him with two new ropes, and brought him out of the rock. 
14 When he came to Lehi, then the Philistines shouted against him. Then the spirit of Yahweh came on him, and the cords that were on his arms became like linen burned in the fire because the ropes loosed from his hands. 
15 And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and he stretched out his hand to take it, and he killed a thousand men with it. 
16 Then Samson said: By the jaw of a donkey are heaps over heaps. With the jaw of a donkey I have killed a thousand men. 
17 And when he had finished speaking, then he threw away the jawbone out of his hand and called that place Ramath-lehi. 
18 And he was thirsty, and he invoked Yahweh and said: You have given this great deliverance by the hand of your servant. And now will I die by thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised. 
19 Then God split a hollow that was under the jawbone [which Samson had thrown away] and water came out. And when Samson had drunk, then his spirit returned and he was refreshed. Therefore the name of this spring of water was called Enhakkore, and it still exists today in Lehi. 
20 Samson judged Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
