1 And also in those days when there was no king in Israel, there was a Levite who dwelt on the side of the mount Ephraim and who took for his concubine a woman from Bethlehem of Judah. 
2 And his concubine played the whore, and after that she went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem of Judah, and remained there four months. 
3 And her husband got up and went to her, to speak to her in a friendly manner and bring her back. He had with him his servant and two donkeys. And she brought him into her father's house [when they met]. And when the father of the young woman saw him, then he received him with joy. 
4 And he was retained by his father in law namely the father of the young woman, and he stayed with him for three days. So they ate and drank, and spent the nights there. 
5 And when the fourth day came, they got up early in the morning and he prepared to depart. Then the father of the young woman said to his son in law: Comfort your heart with a morsel of bread, and then you will go away. 
6 So they sat down and ate and drank together. And the father of the young woman said to the man, Be content I pray you, and spend the night here, and let your heart be glad. 
7 The man got up to leave. But at the urging of his father in law, he spent another night there. 
8 And on the fifth day he got up early in the morning to leave. Then the father of the young woman said to him: Comfort your heart I pray you. So they stayed until afternoon, and they both ate. 
9 And when the man got up to depart with his concubine and his servant, then his father in law [namely the father of the young woman] said to him: Behold the evening is near. I pray you to stay here all the night because the sunset will not be long. Therefore stay here, so that your heart may be joyful. And tomorrow, set out early and go to your tent. 
10 But the man did not want to spend the night, and he got up and departed. And he came in front of Jebus which is Jerusalem, with the two saddled donkeys and with his concubine. 
11 And when they were near Jebus, the daylight had greatly faded and the servant said to his master: Come I pray you, let us go to this city of the Jebusites and we will spend the night there. 
12 And his master answered him: We will not enter a city of strangers, a city which does not belong to the children of Israel. So we will go as far as Gibeah. 
13 And he said again to his servant: Come and let us approach one of these places, that we may spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah. 
14 And they went on their way, and the sunset came when they were near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin. 
15 Then they turned and went in to spend the night in Gibeah. And when he came, then he sat down in a street of the city because no man took them to his house for lodging. 
16 And behold, at the evening an old man came out of the field where he was working. He was from the mount Ephraim but he dwelt in Gibeah, and the men of the place were of the tribe of Benjamin. 
17 And when he looked up, then he saw the traveler in the street of the city. And this old man said: Where are you going, and where are you coming from. 
18 And they said to him: We have come from Bethlehem of Judah, and we are going to the side of mount Ephraim. For I am from there, and from there have gone to Bethlehem of Judah. But I am now going to the house of Yahweh, and no one receives me in his house. 
19 However we have straw and fodder for our donkeys. And we also have bread and wine for me and your handmaid, and for the boy who is with your servant. We lack nothing. 
20 And the old man said: Peace be with you. I will take care of all your needs, and you will not spend the night in the street. 
21 So he brought them into his house, and gave fodder to the donkeys. And the travelers washed their feet, and they ate and drank. 
22 And while they were rejoicing, behold the men of the city came. These wicked men had besieged the house all around and were smiting the door. And they spoke to the old man namely the master of the house by saying: Bring out the man who came into your house, that we may know him [and copulate with him]. 
23 And the man [the master of the house] went out to them and said to them: No my brothers, do not do evil I pray you. Seeing that this man has entered my house, do not be vileness. 
24 Behold I have a virgin daughter, and this man has a concubine. I will bring them to you outside and you will humiliate them, and you will do with them what you please. But do not commit such wickedness toward this man. 
25 But these people did not want to listen to him. Therefore the man took his concubine and brought her outside to them. And they knew her and abused her all the night until morning. Then they sent her away at the daybreak. 
26 And this woman came in the dawning of the day and fell at the entrance to the house of the man who was with her lord, and she remained there until the daylight. 
27 And her lord got up in the morning and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way. And behold, his concubine was dead at the entrance to the house, and her hands were on the threshold. 
28 And he said to her: Get up, and let us go. But she did not answer. Then he put her on a donkey and went to his place. 
29 And when he had come to his house, then he took a knife and laid his hand on his concubine. And he divided her with her bones into twelve parts which he sent throughout the territory of Israel. 
30 And all those who saw it said: Nothing like this has been done or seen since the time that the children of Israel came out of the land of Egypt until this day. Consider, and consult, and pronounce judgment.
