1 These are now the nations to which Yahweh had given rest in order to probe through them all those in Israel who had not known all the wars of Canaan.
2 Only so that the descendants of the children of Israel know. And to teach them war, those who had not known it before. 
3 These nations were: Five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites who dwelt on the Lebanon mountains from the the mount Baal-hermon to the entrance to Hamath. 
4 And they stayed there with their idolatrous practices [by the will of God] to probe Israel, to know whether [individually] they would obey the commandments of Yahweh which he had commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. 
5 And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
6 And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods. 
7 And the children of Israel did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. They forgot Yahweh their God and served the Baals and Asheroth. 
8 Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim the king of Aram-naharaim. And the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years. 
9 And when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, then Yahweh raised up a savior for the children of Israel, and he saved them. It was Othniel the son of Kenaz the younger brother of Caleb. 
10 And the spirit of Yahweh came on him, and he judged Israel. For he went out to war, and Yahweh delivered Cushan-rishathaim the king of Aram into his hand, and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim. 
11 So the land had forty years of rest, and Othniel the son of Kenaz died. 
12 Then the children of Israel did again what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. And Yahweh strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. 
13 And Eglon gathered to himself the children of Ammon, and Amalek, and went to smote Israel. And they possessed the city of palms. 
14 Thus the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years. 
15 But when the children of Israel cried to Yahweh, then Yahweh raised up a savior for them. It was Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite who was lame of his right hand. And the children of Israel sent a gift by him to Eglon the king of Moab. 
16 And Ehud made for himself a dagger sharpened on both edges of the blade which had a length of one cubit. And he girded it under his clothing on his right thigh. 
17 And he presented the gift to Eglon the king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man. 
18 And when he had presented the offering, then he departed with the people who carried the gift and sent them away. 
19 But when he was at the quarries which were near Gilgal, then he returned to the king and he said: I have something secret to tell you, O king. And the king replied: Keep silent. And all those who were around the king went away from him. 
20 And Ehud approached him as he was sitting alone in a upper room. And Ehud said: I have a message for you from God. Therefore the king rose from his throne. 
21 Then Ehud stretched out his left hand and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into the belly of the king. 
22 And the haft also entered after the blade. And the fat closed on the blade so that he could not take the dagger out of his belly, but the dirt came out. 
23 Then Ehud went out into the porch, and closed the doors of the upper room with the king inside, and locked them. 
24 And when he had gone out, then the servants of the king came. They saw that the doors of the upper room were locked, and therefore they said: Surely he is making himself comfortable in the upper room. 
25 So they waited until they were ashamed. And seeing that he did not open the doors of the upper room, they took the key and opened them. And behold, their lord had fallen dead to the ground. 
26 And Ehud fled while they waited, and passed beyond the quarries, and fled to Seirah. 
27 And when he returned home, then he blew a trumpet on the mount Ephraim. And the children of Israel came down with him from the mountain, and he went before them. 
28 Then he said to them: Follow me, for Yahweh had delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. So they descended after him, and took the passages of the Jordan which allowed to enter the land of Moab, and did not let anyone pass over. 
29 And they killed at that time among the Moabites about ten thousand men who were all brave and warriors, and not a man escaped. 
30 So Moab was humiliated under the hands of Israel on this day, and the land had rest for eighty years. 
31 And after Ehud [when Israel was again under the oppression of their enemies], there was Shamgar the son of Anath who killed six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox goad and he also delivered Israel.
