1 Now Samson went down to Timnah, and he saw there a woman among the daughters of the Philistines.
2 And he came up and told his father and his mother by saying: I have seen in Timnah a woman of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore, give her to me for a wife. 
3 Then his father and his mother said to him: Is there never a wife among the daughters of your brothers, and among all my people, so that you should go and take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines. And Samson said to his father: Give her to me, for she really pleases me. 
4 But his father and his mother did not know that it was from Yahweh. For he sought an opportunity against the Philistines, because the Philistines ruled over Israel at that time. 
5 Then Samson and his father and his mother went down to Timnah, and came to the vineyards at Timnah. And behold, a young lion roared against him. 
6 And the spirit of Yahweh came on Samson. And without having anything in hand, Samson tore the lion as one would tear a kid from the flock with a tool. 
7 And he went down and talked with the woman who was beautiful in Samson’s eyes. 
8 And few days later when he returned in Timnah to take her, then he turned away to see the carcass of the lion. And behold, there was a swarm of bees and also honey in the body of the lion. 
9 And he took of the honey in his hands, and ate of it on the way. And he came to his father and to his mother and gave of it to them, and they ate. But he did not tell them that he had taken this honey out of the body of the lion. 
10 And the father of Samson went down to the [house of the] woman. And there Samson made a feast, for it was the custom of the young men. 
11 And when the Philistines saw Samson, then they brought thirty companions to surround him. 
12 Then Samson said to them: Now let me offer you a riddle. If you explain it to me during the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen clothes and thirty spare clothes.  
13 But if you cannot find it out, then you will give me thirty linen clothes and thirty spare clothes. And they said to him: Put down your riddle, that we may hear it. 
14 And he said to them, 'Out of the one who eats has come food, and out of the strong has come the sweetness'. For three days they could not explain the riddle. 
15 And on the seventh day they said to Samson's wife: Persuade your husband to explain the riddle to us, lest we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you called us to rob us. 
16 And Samson's wife wept before him and said: Surely you hate me and you do not love me. For you have proposed a riddle to the children of my people, and you did not explain it to me. And he said to her: I did not explain it to my father or my mother. Will I explain it to you. 
17 Then Samson's wife wept before him for seven days, while their feast lasted. And when the seventh day came then he explained it to her, because she was giving him anxiety. And then she gave the explanation of the riddle to the children of her people. 
18 And the men of the city spoke to him on the seventh day before the sunset by saying: What is sweeter than honey, and what is stronger than a lion. Then he said to them: If you had not plowed with my heifer, then you would not have found out my riddle. 
19 And the spirit of Yahweh came on him, and he went down to Ashkelon. And he killed there thirty men [whose guilt towards him is not specified], and took their spoil. And he gave the spare clothes to those who had explained the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house. 
20 Then Samson’s wife was given to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.
