1 And an angel of Yahweh went up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said the following thing.
2 I have brought you out of Egypt, and have brought you into the land which I had sworn to your fathers. And I said, 'I will never break my covenant with you. And you also will not make a covenant with the inhabitants of land, but you will destroy their altars'. Nevertheless you have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this. 
3 Therefore I have said: I will not drive them out before you, but they will be as thorns in your sides and their gods will be your destruction. 
4 And when the angel of Yahweh spoke these words to all the children of Israel, then the people raised their voice and wept. 
5 Therefore they called this place Bochim, and there they offered sacrifices to Yahweh [on an altar that they built for a memorial of this event]. 
6 At the time when Joshua had sent the people away, then the children of Israel went each in his inheritance to own the land. 
7 And the people served Yahweh during all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua and who had seen all the great works of Yahweh that he had done for Israel. 
8 But Joshua the son of Nun and servant of Yahweh died when he was one hundred and ten years old.
9 And they buried him in the coasts of his inheritance, in Timnath-heres on the mount Ephraim in the north of the mount Gaash. 
10 And also that whole generation was gathered to their fathers, and there arose after them another generation who knew neither Yahweh nor the works that he had done for Israel. 
11 Then the children of Israel acted wickedly in the sight of Yahweh, and they also served Baals. 
12 And they forsook Yahweh the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt. And they went to other gods, of the gods of the peoples around them. They worshiped them and provoked Yahweh to anger. 
13 They abandoned Yahweh, and they served Baal and Ashtaroth. 
14 Then the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel. And he delivered them into the hands of plunderers who plundered them. And he sold them into the hands of their surrounding enemies, and they could no longer resist their enemies. 
15 Wherever they went, the hand of Yahweh was against them to harm them, as Yahweh had said and as Yahweh had sworn to them. They were thus in great distress. 
16 Nevertheless Yahweh raised judges to save them from the hands of those who plundered them. 
17 But they did not remain faithful to the testimony of their judges. For they prostituted themselves again to other gods by worshiping them, and thus quickly turned away from the teachings of their fathers who had obeyed the commandments of Yahweh. They did not do as their fathers did in the days of Joshua. 
18 Whenever Yahweh raised up a judge for them, then Yahweh was with the judge and saved them from the hand of their enemies throughout the life of the judge. For Yahweh had pity on their groaning which was caused by those who oppressed and tormented them. 
19 But when the judge was dead, then they turned away again and did worse than their fathers, while following other gods to serve and worship them. They did not cease to be inventive and rebellious. 
20 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel, and he said: Since this people has transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and since they did not obey my voice. 
21 Therefore I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died. 
22 And through them, I will probe Israel and I will see whether or not [individually] they will keep the way of Yahweh, to walk in it as their fathers walked in it. 
23 So Yahweh gave rest to those nations which he had not delivered into the hand of Joshua, and he did not hasten to drive them out.
