1 Then Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brothers. And he spoke to them and to all the house of his mother's father in the following words. 
2 Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem. And ask whether it is better for you that all the sons of Jerubbaal which are seventy rule over you, or that one man [I who am also a son of Jerubbaal] rule over you. Also remember that I am your bone and your flesh. 
3 Then his mother's brothers spoke all these of his words to all the men of Shechem. And their hearts inclined to Abimelech, for they said: He is our brother. 
4 And they gave him seventy pieces of silver which they took from the house of Baal-berith. And Abimelech used it to hire vain and light fellows who then came after him. 
5 And he went to his father's house at Ophrah. And he killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal on a same stone, about seventy persons. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal escaped, because he hid himself. 
6 And all the men of Shechem gathered together with all the house of Millo, and they came and made Abimelech king in the plain where a pillar was established in Shechem. 
7 And when Jotham was told about it, then he went and stood on the top of the mount Gerizim. And there he lifted up his voice and cried, and said to them: Listen to me, you the men of Shechem. And may God hear you. 
8 The trees went to anoint a king over them, and they said to the olive tree: Rule over us. 
9 But the olive tree answered them: Should I leave my fat which honors God and man, and go and swing among the trees. 
10 Then the trees said to the fig tree: Come and be king over us. 
11 But the fig tree answered them: Should I forsake my sweetness and my good fruit, and go and swing among the trees. 
12 Then the trees said to the vine: Come and be king over us. 
13 But the vine answered them: Should I leave my wine which rejoices God and man, and go and swing among the trees. 
14 Then all the trees said to the thornbush: Come and rule over us. 
15 And the thornbush answered the trees: If it is in good faith that you want to anoint me as your king, then come and take refuge under my shade. Otherwise, a fire will come out of the thornbush and devour the cedars of Lebanon. 
16 Now therefore, was it in good faith and with integrity that you acted in proclaiming Abimelech king. Have you been fair to Jerubbaal and his house. Have you treated him according to what he has done for you. 
17 For my father fought for you, and exposed his life. And he delivered you from the hand of Midian. 
18 And you have risen up against my father's house this day. And you have killed his children, about seventy persons, on one stone. And you have made Abimelech the son of his maid-servant king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother. 
19 If you have acted in good faith and uprightly with Jerubbaal and his house this day, then rejoice. 
20 Otherwise, let a fire come out of Abimelech and devour the men of Shechem and the house of Millo. And also let fire come from the men of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech. 
21 And Jotham ran and fled. And he went to Beer and dwelt there, for he was afraid of his brother Abimelech. 
22 And Abimelech ruled over Israel for three years. 
23 Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem. And the men of Shechem became unfaithful to Abimelech. 
24 This was so that the cruelty toward the seventy sons of Jerubbaal and their blood would come and be put on Abimelech, their brother who killed them, and also on the men of Shechem who helped him to kill his brothers.
25 Then the men of Shechem placed some persons in ambush on the tops of the mountains, and these persons plundered everyone who passed by. And this was reported to Abimelech. 
26 Then Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brothers, and they went to Shechem. And the men of Shechem put their trust in him. 
27 Therefore they went out into the field and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and they had a party. They went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech. 
28 Then Gaal the son of Ebed said: Who is Abimelech, and why should anyone in Shechem serve him. Is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and is not Zebul his officer. We should rather serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem, for why should we serve Abimelech. 
29 If now this people were under my hand, then I would overthrow Abimelech. And he said for Abimelech: Strengthen your army and come out.
30 And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, then his anger was kindled. 
31 Therefore he secretly sent messengers to Abimelech by saying: Behold Gaal the son of Ebed and his brothers have come to Shechem, and behold they raise the inhabitants of the city against you. 
32 Now therefore depart by night, you and the people who are with you, and ambush in the field. 
33 And in the morning at sunrise, you will violently attack the city. And when Gaal and the people who are with him come out against you, then you will do to him what you can. 
34 So Abimelech and all the people who were with him departed by night, and they ambush near Shechem in four companies. 
35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech and the people who were with him arose from the ambush. 
36 And when Gaal saw the people, then he said to Zebul: Behold people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said to him: The shadow of the mountains seems to you like men. 
37 And Gaal spoke again and said: See, people are going down into the middle of the land, and another group is coming by the way of the plain of Meonenim. 
38 Then Zebul answered him: Where is now your mouth with which you said, Who is Abimelech and why should we serve him. Is not this the people that you have despised. Go out now, I pray you, and fight with them. 
39 And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and they fought against Abimelech. 
40 And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before Abimelech, and there many wounded men fell at the entrance of the gate. 
41 And Abimelech returned to Arumah. And Zebul drove Gaal and his brothers out of Shechem. 
42 And in the morning the people went out of Shechem and entered the field. And this was reported to Abimelech. 
43 And he took his men and divided them into three companies, and ambushed them in the field. And he looked and behold, the people were going out of the city. And he rose up against them and smote them. 
44 And Abimelech and the group that was with him rushed and stood at the entrance to the city gate. And the other two groups rushed on all the people who were in the fields and killed them. 
45 And Abimelech fought against the city all that day. And he took the city and killed the people in it. And he destroyed the city and sowed salt in it. 
46 And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard it, then they entered a fortress of the house of the god Berith. 
47 And it was reported to Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together. 
48 And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon with all the people who were with him. And Abimelech took axes with him, and cut down boughs of trees which he took and carried on his shoulder. And he said to the men who were with him: As you saw me doing, hurry up and do like me. 
49 Then all the people also cut down each one his bough, and followed Abimelech. And they put them in the fortress, and set fire to the fortress with them. So all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women. 
50 Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and he besieged it, and he took it. 
51 But there was a strong tower in the city, and there fled all the men and women, and all the chiefs of the city. And they shut themselves inside and went up to the top of the tower. 
52 And Abimelech came to the tower and attacked it. And he went to the door of the tower to set it on fire. 
53 But a certain woman threw a piece of a millstone on Abimelech’s head, and broke his skull. 
54 Then he hastily called to the young man who carried his weapons and said to him, Draw your sword and kill me, lest anyone say of me: It was a woman who killed him. So the young man pierced him and he died. 
55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, then they departed each one to his own place.
56 Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech, which he had committed against his father by killing his seventy brothers. 
57 And God brought all the wickedness of the men of Shechem on their heads. And on them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
