1 And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together and went northward. And they said to Jephthah: Why did you not call us when you went to fight against the children of Ammon. Therefore we will burn your house with fire and burn you with it. 
2 And Jephthah answered them: I and my people [of Gilead which belong to Manasseh] were in great conflict with the children of Ammon. And when I called you, then you did not come to save me from their hand. 
3 And seeing that you did not come to my aid, then I exposed my life and went to fight against the children of Ammon. And Yahweh delivered them into my hand. Why have you come to fight me now. 
4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought against Ephraim. And the men of Gilead smote Ephraim because Ephraim had said: The inhabitants of Gilead are vagabonds, some of whom are descendants of Ephraim and others are descendants of Manasseh. 
5 And also the Gileadites captured the fords of the Jordan that could have allowed the Ephraimites to escape from the territory of Gilead. And when anyone of the Ephraimites who was trying to escape arrived at these places and said, Let me pass. Then the men of Gilead asked him, Are you an Ephraimite. And if he replied, No. 
6 Then they said to him, 'Say now Shibboleth'. And he said, 'Sibboleth'. For he could not pronounce it aright [they had been separated by the Jordan for more than three centuries]. Then they took him and killed him at fords of the Jordan. And the Ephraimites who were killed at that time were forty two thousand. 
7 Jephthah judged Israel for six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead. 
8 After him, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel. 
9 He had thirty sons, and also thirty daughters which he sent out [in marriage], and he brought thirty daughters from outside for his sons. He judged Israel for seven years. 
10 Then Ibzan died and was buried in Bethlehem. 
11 And after him, a Zebulunite called Elon judged Israel. And he judged Israel for ten years. 
12 Then Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun. 
13 And after him, Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel. 
14 And he had forty sons and thirty nephews, who rode on seventy donkeys. And he judged Israel for eight years. 
15 Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died. And he was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
