1 On that day Deborah sang the following song with Barak the son of Abinoam.
2 Praise Yahweh who avenged Israel when the people offered themselves willingly.
3 Hear you the kings, hear you the princes. I myself will sing to Yahweh, I will sing praise to Yahweh the God of Israel. 
4 O Yahweh. When you went out of Seir, when you departed out of the fields of Edom, then the earth trembled and the heavens melted, and the clouds dropped water. 
5 The mountains melted at the presence of Yahweh, as the mount Sinai did at the presence of Yahweh the God of Israel. 
6 In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael [the wife of Heber], the highways were unoccupied and the travelers were walking through byways. 
7 The cities were not inhabited. They were in ruins in Israel I say, until I Deborah arose and became a mother in Israel. 
8 They had chosen new gods and then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand of Israel. 
9 My heart is toward the rulers of Israel and toward those who are of good will among the people. Praise Yahweh. 
10 Speak, you who ride on white donkeys, who sit in judgment and walk in the way. 
11 Those who are freed from the noise of archers in the places where water is drawn. They will celebrate there the righteous acts of Yahweh, the righteous acts towards his people in Israel. Then the people of Yahweh will go down to the gates.
12 Get up Deborah, get up and sing a song. Arise Barak, and lead away your captives into captivity, you the son of Abinoam. 
13 For a remnant of the people has dominion over the mighty. Yahweh has given me dominion over the strong. 
14 From Ephraim their root arises against Amalek. And as Ephraim, Benjamin will fight against your people, O Amalek. From Machir came rulers, and from Zebulun those who handle the writer's pen. 
15 The princes of Issachar were with Deborah, and Issachar followed Barak who was set on his feet in the valley, for great were the resolutions of the heart by the divisions of Reuben. 
16 Why did you stay among the sheepfolds to hear the bleating of the flocks. For great were the resolutions of the heart by the divisions of Reuben. 
17 Gilead beyond the Jordan has not left his dwelling place. Why did Dan stand on the ships. Asher sat on the seashore, and abode in his ports. 
18 But the people of Zebulun and Naphtali risked their lives to death in the high places of the field. 
19 The kings came and fought. Then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and they received no gain of money. 
20 They fought with the help of heaven, even the stars in their course fought against Sisera. 
21 The river Kishon carried them away, that ancient river which is the river Kishon. O my soul, you have walked valiantly. 
22 Then the hooves of the horses were broken by the repeated hits of their warriors.
23 Curse Meroz, says the angel of Yahweh. Curse its inhabitants because they did not come to help Yahweh, to help Yahweh against the mighty. 
24 Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite is blessed above other women. She is blessed above the women who dwell in tents. 
25 He [Sisera] asked for water and she gave milk to him. She brought him butter in a lordly dish. 
26 Then she seized the nail with one hand, and her right hand took the hammer of the workers. Then she smote Sisera with the hammer. She cut off his head, after she had injured and pierced his temples. 
27 God bowed him down at her feet, and he fell down and remained motionless. God bowed him down at her feet, and he fell. And after he had collapsed, he lay there dead. 
28 The mother of Sisera looked out the window and shouted through the lattice: Why is his chariot so long to come, why have the wheels of his chariots delayed. 
29 Her wise ladies answered her, and she answered herself with her own words.
30 Have they not obtained, and do they not share the spoils. Every man has one or two young women. Sisera has a spoil of dyed garments, a spoil of dyed and embroidered garments, garments dyed and embroidered on both sides for the chief of the spoil. 
31 Thus perish all your enemies, O Yahweh. But those who love him are like the sun when it rises in his strength. And the land had rest forty years.
