1 And the children of Israel began again to do evil in the sight of the Yahweh when Ehud was dead [after the times of Ehud]. 
2 And Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin the king of Canaan who reigned in Hazor. His chief captain was called Sisera and dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles. 
3 Then the children of Israel cried to Yahweh. For he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he painfully oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years. 
4 And at that time Deborah judged Israel. She was a prophetess and the wife of Lappidoth. 
5 And this Deborah dwelt under a palm tree, between Ramah and Bethel on the mount Ephraim, and the children of Israel usually came to her for judgment [for she was a prophetess]. 
6 Then she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kadesh of Naphtali. And she said to him, Has not Yahweh the God of Israel commanded by saying: Go now. Walk to the mount Tabor, and take with you ten thousand men of children of Naphtali and children of Zebulun. 
7 And I will attract Sisera to you at the river Kishon, the captain of the army of Jabin. He will come with his chariots and his multitude, and I will deliver him into your hand. 
8 And Barak said to her: If you come with me then I will go, but if you do not come with me then I will not go. 
9 Then she answered: I will surely go with you, but this journey that you take will not be for your honor. For Yahweh will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah got up and went with Barak to Kedesh. 
10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and he went up with ten thousand men. And Deborah went up with him. 
11 Now Heber the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites and had set up his tent to the plain of Zaanaim near Kedesh. He was one of the descendants of the father in law of Moses.
12 Then it was told to Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to the mount Tabor. 
13 And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred iron chariots. And also all the people to him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles even to the river Kishon. 
14 Then Deborah said to Barak: Get up, for this is the day in which Yahweh will deliver Sisera into your hand. Is not Yahweh gone out before you. So Barak went down from the mount Tabor, having ten thousand men with him. 
15 And Yahweh destroyed Sisera and all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword by the hand of Barak [and his men]. And Sisera got down from his chariot and fled on his feet. 
16 But Barak pursued the chariots and the army to Harosheth of the Gentiles. And all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword. There was not a man left. 
17 However Sisera fled on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite. For there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and between the house of Heber the Kenite. 
18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him: Come in, my lord, come in to me, do not be afraid. And when he had come into her tent, then she covered him with a blanket. 
19 And he said to her: Give me a little water to drink, I pray you. For I am thirsty. Then she opened a bottle of milk and gave him to drink, and covered him. 
20 And he said to her, Stand at the door of the tent. And if someone comes to question you by saying, Is there anyone here, then you will answer: No. 
21 Then Jael the wife of Heber took a nail of the tent, and took an hammer in her hand. And she approached him slowly and smote the nail near his ear, and it penetrated his head and enter the ground for he was in a deep sleep. And so he died. 
22 And behold, Barak who was pursuing Sisera arrived there. And Jael went out to meet him and said to him: Come, and I will show you the man whom you are looking for. And he entered her tent and behold, Sisera was lying dead with the nail in his temples. 
23 So God humiliated Jabin the king of Canaan on that day before the children of Israel. 
24 And the hand of the children of Israel prospered and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin the king of Canaan.
