1 Now a Gileadite named Jephthah was a valiant man. He was the son of a prostitute woman and his father's name was Gilead. 
2 The wife of Gilead bore him sons. And when his wife's children grew up, then they drove out Jephthah and said to him: You will not inherit in our father's house because you are the son of another woman. 
3 Then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and dwelt in the land of Tob. And the vain gathered themselves to Jephthah, and they went out with him. 
4 And some time later, the children of Ammon made war against Israel. 
5 And when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, then the elders of Gilead went to take Jephthah out of the land of Tob. 
6 And they said to Jephthah: Come and you will be our chief, and we will fight against the children of Ammon. 
7 And Jephthah answered the elders of Gilead: Did you not hate me. And have you not cast me out of my father's house. Why do you come to me now when you are in distress. 
8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah: Therefore we turn to you now, that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon. And you will be chief over all the inhabitants of Gilead [in remembrance of our sin]. 
9 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead: If you bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and if Yahweh give them before me, then I will be your chief. 
10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah: Yahweh will be witness between us, if we do not do what you said. 
11 Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him chief and captain over them. And Jephthah spoke again before Yahweh in Mizpah all the words that he had spoken. 
12 And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon by saying: What is it between me and you, that you come against me to fight against my land. 
13 And the king of the children of Ammon answered the messengers of Jephthah: Because Israel took possession of my land when they came from Egypt, the land from the Arnon to Jabbok and to the Jordan. Now therefore, restore this land peaceably. 
14 And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon. 
15 And they said, Thus says Jephthah: Israel took not the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon. 
16 But when Israel came out of Egypt and went through the wilderness to the red sea, then they came to Kadesh. 
17 And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom by saying: Let me go through your land, I pray you. But the king of Edom did not consent. And they also sent to the king of Moab, but he did not want. This is why Israel stayed in Kadesh. 
18 Then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came to the east of the land of Moab. And they encamped on the other side of the Arnon without entering the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab. 
19 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon the king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him: We pray you, let us pass through your land to the place where we are going. 
20 But Sihon did not consent to Israel passing through his border. But Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel. 
21 And Yahweh the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites who were established there. 
22 And they possessed all the coast of the Amorites, from the Arnon to Jabbok, and from the wilderness to the Jordan. 
23 And now that Yahweh the God of Israel has driven out the Amorites before his people Israel, are you the one who will possess their land. 
24 Should you not possess what is given to you by your god Chemosh. For from all those whom Yahweh our God drives out before us, we possess their land. 
25 Are you better than Balak the son of Zippor the king of Moab. He did not dispute with Israel and he did not wage war against them. 
26 And during three hundred years Israel has dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are on the coasts of the Arnon. Why did you [your people] not recover the land in that time. 
27 Therefore I have not offended you, but you act badly with me by making war against me. Yahweh the Judge is today the judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon. 
28 However, the king of the children of Ammon did not listen to the words that were sent to him by Jephthah. 
29 Then the spirit of Yahweh came on Jephthah. And he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and he came to Mizpeh in Gilead, and from Mizpeh in Gilead he went to the children of Ammon. 
30 And Jephthah made a vow to Yahweh and said: If you give the children of Ammon into my hand. 
31 Then whatever comes out of the gates of my house to meet me while I return in peace from the children of Ammon, the same will be dedicated to Yahweh and I will offer it as a burnt offering. 
32 And Jephthah went to the children of Ammon to fight against them, and Yahweh delivered them into his hand. 
33 And he caused them to experience a very great defeat from Aroer to Minnith, an area which contained twenty cities, and as far as Abel-cheramim. And the children of Ammon were humiliated before the children of Israel. 
34 Then Jephthah returned to his house in Mizpah and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with a tambourine and dances. She was his only child. He had no son and he had no other daughter. 
35 And when he saw her, then he tore his clothes and said: Alas my daughter, you have belittled me now and you are of those who trouble me. For I have opened my mouth to Yahweh, and I cannot turn back. 
36 And she said to him: My father, if you have opened your mouth to Yahweh then do with me as you have promised, seeing that Yahweh has avenged you from your enemies the children of Ammon. 
37 And she spoke again to her father by saying: Do this for me. Give me two months so that I may go to the mountains and bewail my virginity, I and my fellows. 
38 And he replied, Go. So he sent her away for two months, and she went with her companions, and she lamented her virginity on the mountains. 
39 And at the end of two months, she returned to her father. And he did with her according to the vow that he had made. She had known no man. 
40 And then [because of this event], there arose in Israel a custom according to which the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite for four days a year.
