1 At that time there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan was looking for an inheritance to live there [and thus complete their territory]. For until that time all their inheritance [given by Joshua] was not in their possession among the tribes of Israel [and not all the other tribes owned all their lands]. 
2 Therefore the children of Dan took from among themselves in their country five men of their families, men experts in war whom they sent from Zorah and Eshtaol [which belong to the inheritance given by Joshua to the tribe of Dan] to view and examine the land [the parts that they have not yet conquered]. And they said to them, Go and examine the land. So they came to the mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, and they spent the night there. 
3 When they were at the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. So they came to him and said to him: Who brought you here. What are you doing in this place, and what do you have here. 
4 And he said to them: Micah has done thus and thus with me, and he has hired me, and I am his priest.
5 And they said to him, Consult God now, that we may know whether our journey will succeed or not. 
6 And the priest said to them: Go in peace, for Yahweh guides the way in which you go. 
7 Then the five men departed and came to Laish, and they saw the people who were there. How they were living carelessly after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and sure. For there was no one in the land to trouble them or to establish dominion over them. They were also distant from the Sidonians and had no relation with any other men. 
8 And they returned to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol. And their brothers said to them, What news do you bring. 
9 And they answered: Get up, and we will go against them. For we have seen the land, and surely it is very good. How can you sit still. Be not lazy to go and enter to possess the land. 
10 When you go then you will come to a people who lives carelessly, and the land is vast. For God has given it into your hand. It is a place where nothing is lacking of everything that is on earth. 
11 Then six hundred men of the family of the Danites set out from Zorah and Eshtaol, armed with their weapons of war. 
12 And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah. Therefore this place  which is behind Kiriath-jearim has been called Mahaneh-Dan to this day. 
13 And they departed from there to the mount Ephraim, and came to the dwelling place of Micah. 
14 Then the five men who had gone to spy the country of Laish said to their brothers: Do you know that in one these houses there is an ephod, and theraphim, and a graven image and a molten image. Now therefore consider what ye have to do. 
15 And they came near and entered the house of the young Levite, namely the house of Micah, and greeted him peacefully. 
16 And the six hundred men of the children of Dan stood at the entrance of the gate, equipped with their weapons of war. 
17 And the five men who had gone to spy the land entered the house. And they took the graven image, and the ephod, and the theraphim, and the molten image, while the priest was at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men equipped with their weapons of war. 
18 And when they had entered the house of Micah, and had took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, then the priest said to them: What are you doing. 
19 And they answered him: Hold your peace, put your hand on your mouth and come with us to be our father and our priest. Is it better for you to serve as a priest to one man's house, or to serve as a priest to a tribe and a family in Israel. 
20 And the priest's heart was glad. And he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and he joined the company. 
21 And they turned and departed. And they put the children and the cattle and the goods before them. 
22 When they were far from the house of Micah, then the men who were in the houses near the house of Micah gathered and pursued the children of Dan. 
23 And they cried to the children of Dan who then turned their faces and said to Micah, What do you have that makes you shout. 
24 You have taken away my gods which I have made, and also the priest, and you are going away. Therefore what do I have left. And how then can you say to me: What is the matter with you. 
25 And the children of Dan said to him: Let not your voice be heard among us, lest angry men run to you and you lose your life with that of your household. 
26 And the children of Dan departed. And Micah saw that they were too strong for him therefore he turned and went back to his house. 
27 So they took the things that Micah had made, and the priest whom he had. And they came to Laish to a quiet people who did not worry about their safety, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire. 
28 And there was no one to help these people. For Laish was far from Sidon, and they had no relation with other men. Also it was also in the valley that is near Beth-rehob. After that, the children of Dan built the city and dwelt there. 
29 And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father who was begotten by Israel [Jacob]. But the city was previously called Laish. 
30 Then the children of Dan set up the graven image for themselves. And Jonathan the son of Gershom the son of Manasseh [this Manasseh was from the tribe of Levi], he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land. 
31 So they established for themselves the graven image that Micah had made, during all the time that the house of God [a structure that contained the tent of meeting built by Moses] was in Shiloh.
