1 Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people who were with him, they got up early in the morning and encamped near the well of Harod. The Midianites were encamped in the valley near the hill of Moreh, on the north side of Gideon and his men. 
2 And Yahweh said to Gideon: The people who are with you are too numerous for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me by saying: My own hand has saved me. 
3 Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people by saying: Whoever is timid or afraid, let him turn back and depart from mount Gilead. Then twenty two thousand of the people departed, and ten thousand remained. 
4 And Yahweh spoke again to Gideon and said: There are still too many people. Bring them down to the water, and there I will sort them out for you. And he of whom I will say to you, Let this one go with you, the same will go with you. And he of whom I will say to you, This man will not go with you, the same will not go. 
5 So he brought the people down to the water. And Yahweh said to Gideon: All those who suck the water with their tongue by placing their hands on the ground and thus having the shape of a dog that licks, they will be set apart. And whoever kneels to drink by bringing his hand to his mouth will be set apart. 
6 And the number of those who sucked by putting their hands to their mouths was three hundred men. And all the other people bowed down from their knees to suck the water by putting their hands on the ground. 
7 Then Yahweh said to Gideon: It is by these three hundred men who sucked by using their hands that I will save you and deliver the Midianites into your hand. So let all the other people go every man to his place. 
8 Then the chosen ones took the provisions and the trumpets. And Gideon sent the remaining of Israel to their tents, and he retained the three hundred men. The camp of Midian was below him in the valley. 
9 And Yahweh said to Gideon in the same night: Get up, and go down to the camp [of Midian]. For I have delivered it into your hands. 
10 But if you fear to go down, then you will go with Purah your servant. 
11 And you will listen to what they say [in their camp], and after that your hands will be strengthened. So go down to the camp. Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the soldiers who were in the camp [of Midian]. 
12 And there in the valley were the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all those of the east. They were like grasshoppers in multitude, and their camels were innumerable like the sand that is on the seashore. 
13 And when Gideon arrived, behold a man was telling a dream to his neighbor by saying: Behold I had a dream and lo, a cake of barley bread was rolling from above into the camp of Midian. And it came to the tent and smote it so that it fell, and turned it upside down so that the tent fell flat. 
14 And his comrade answered and said: It is nothing other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel. For God has delivered Midian and all the camp into his hand. 
15 When Gideon heard the story of the dream and its explanation, then he worshiped and returned to the camp of Israel. And he said: Get up, for Yahweh has delivered the camp of Midian into your hand. 
16 And he divided the three hundred men into three groups. And he gave a trumpet into the hands of every man, and also empty pitchers with torches within the pitchers. 
17 And he said to them: You will look at me and do as I do. As soon as I approach the camp, you will do what I will do. 
18 When I sound the trumpet, I and all those who will be with me, then you will also sound the trumpet all around the camp and you will say: For Yahweh and for Gideon. 
19 Then Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outermost part of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, namely when the guards had just been placed. And they sounded their trumpets, and broke the pitchers that were in their hands. 
20 And the three companies sounded the trumpets and broke the pitchers. And they took the torches in their left hands, and the trumpets were in their right hand to sound. And they cried out by saying, The sword of Yahweh and of Gideon. 
21 And they stood each man in his place all around the camp. And the whole army [of Midian] ran, and shouted, and fled. 
22 And the three hundred men sounded their trumpets, and throughout the camp Yahweh caused the men of Midian to turn their swords against each other. So the camp fled to Beth-shittah toward Zererah, and to the border of Abel-meholah near Tabbath. 
23 Then the men of Israel gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh. And they pursued Midian. 
24 And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the mount Ephraim and they said: Go down against the Midianites, and intercept them at the passage of the waters to Beth-barah and to the Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered together and took possession of the passage of waters to Beth-barah and to the Jordan. 
25 And they took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb. And they killed Oreb on [what is therefore called] the rock of Oreb, and they killed Zeeb at [what is therefore called] the winepress of Zeeb. And they pursued the Midianites, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon on the other side of the Jordan.
