1 After the death of Joshua, the children of Israel asked Yahweh by saying: Who among us will go up first against the Canaanites to fight them. 
2 And Yahweh said: Judah will go up. Behold I have given the land into his hands.
3 And Judah said to Simeon his brother: Come up with me to the land that has fallen to me by lot, and we may fight against the Canaanites. And I also will go with you to fight for the land that fell to you by lot. And Simeon went with him. 
4 So Judah went up, and Yahweh delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands, and they killed ten thousand men in Bezek.
5 And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek. And they fought against him, and killed the Canaanites and the Perizzites. 
6 But Adoni-bezek fled. And they pursued him and caught him, and cut off the thumbs of his hands and of his feet. 
7 And Adoni-bezek said: Seventy kings, having the thumbs of their hands and of their feet cut off, gathered their food under my table. God repays me for what I have done. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there. 
8 For the children of Judah had fought against [a part of] Jerusalem, and had taken it and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and had burned the city. 
9 Then the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who dwelt on the hills, and toward the south, and in the plain. 
10 And Judah went against the Canaanites who dwelt in Hebron which was formerly called Kiriath-arba. And they killed Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai. 
11 And from there he went to the inhabitants of Debir which was formerly called Kiriath-sepher. 
12 And Caleb said: Whoever smites Kiriath-sepher and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife. 
13 And Othniel took it. He was the son of Kenaz who was the younger brother of Caleb. And Caleb give him Achsah his daughter to wife. 
14 And when she came to Othniel, then she exhort him to ask a field from her father. And she [went to her father and] got off her donkey, and Caleb said: What do you want. 
15 And she answered him: Give me a blessing. Since you have given me the land of the south, then give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the springs above and the springs beneath. 
16 And the children of Moses' father in law, who were of the Kenites, they departed from the city of the palm trees with the children of Judah and went into the wilderness of Judah which is in the south of Arad. And they dwelt among the people [of Judah] there. 
17 But Judah went out with his brother Simeon, and they killed the Canaanites who dwelt in Zephath, and destroyed it completely, and called the name of the city Hormah. 
18 Judah also took Gaza with its borders, and Ashkelon with its borders, and Ekron with its borders. 
19 And Yahweh was with Judah. And Judah became master of the mountain, but he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley because they had iron chariots. 
20 And they gave Hebron to Caleb as Moses had said, and he drove out the three sons of Anak from there. 
21 But the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who dwelt in Jerusalem. Therefore the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day. 
22 And those of the house of Joseph went up to Bethel, and Yahweh was with them. 
23 And the house of Joseph sent to spy Bethel which was formerly called Luz. 
24 And the spies saw a man going out of the city, and they said to him: Show us, we pray you, the way that leads into the city. And we will show you mercy. 
25 And when he had shown them the way to enter the city, then they smote the city with the edge of the sword but they let the man go with all his family. 
26 Then the man went to the land of the Hittites and built a city there. And he called it Luz, and that is still its name today. 
27 Manasseh did not completely destroy Beth-shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns. But the Canaanites continued to live in this land. 
28 Nevertheless when Israel was strong, they imposed a tribute on the Canaanites and did not expel them completely.
29 Likewise Ephraim did not expel the Canaanites who dwelt in Gezer, and the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them. 
30 Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol. And the Canaanites dwelt among them, but they were subjected to a tribute. 
31 Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob. 
32 But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites who were the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out. 
33 Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath. And he dwelt among the Canaanites who were the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath were subjected to a tribute. 
34 And the Amorites drove the children of Dan into the mountain, and did not let them come down to the valley. 
35 And the Amorites still dwelt on the mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. But when the hand of the family of Joseph became more powerful, then they were subjected to a tribute. 
36 And the border of the Amorites extended from Maaleh-akrabbim, from Selah and upward.
