1 Moreover, the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah by saying: None of us will give his daughter to a Benjamite to be a wife. 
2 And the people came to Bethel, and stayed there before God until the evening. And they raised their voices and wept with a great lamentation. 
3 And they said: O Yahweh the God of Israel, why has it happened in Israel today that one tribe of Israel is missing. 
4 And the people got up in the morning and they built an altar there [for a memorial of this war], and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. 
5 Then the children of Israel said: Who among all the tribes of Israel has not come up to the assembly before Yahweh. For a solemn oath has been sworn against anyone who has not come up to Mizpah before Yahweh, and it has been said: He will be put to death. 
6 And the children of Israel were sorry for their brother Benjamin, and they said: This day a tribe has been cut off from Israel. 
7 How will we give wives to those who are still alive among them, since we have sworn by Yahweh not to give them our daughters as wives. 
8 And they said, Is there anyone among the tribes of Israel who had not come to Mizpah before Yahweh. And behold, no one from Jabesh-gilead had come to the army and to the assembly.
9 For when the people were numbered, behold none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead were there. 
10 Therefore the congregation sent there twelve thousand men from the most valiant, and commanded them by saying: Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, both women and children. 
11 And this is what you will do. You will completely destroy every male and also all the women who have already copulated with a man. 
12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgin girls who had not known any man by copulating with him. And they brought them to the camp [who had gathered] in Shiloh which is in the land of Canaan. 
13 Then the whole congregation sent messengers to speak to the sons of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rimmon, and to announce peace to them. 
14 And the Benjamites returned at that time. And the children of Israel gave to them as wives those whom they had saved alive from the women of Jabesh-gilead: But there were not enough women for the Benjamites. 
15 And the people were sorry for Benjamin, because Yahweh had made a hole in the tribes of Israel. 
16 Therefore the elders of the assembly said: What will we do to provide wives for those who remain. For the women of Benjamin were destroyed during the war. 
17 And they said: There must be an inheritance for the benjamites who are still alive, for no tribe should be cut off from Israel. 
18 But we cannot give them wives from our daughters. For the children of Israel have sworn by saying: Cursed be he [among the children of Israel] who gives a wife [from his daughters] to a Benjamite. 
19 Therefore they said: Behold there is a feast of Yahweh every year in Shiloh, a place that is on the north of Bethel, and on the east of the way that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah. [and there are these communities who live among the children of Israel and who participate in this feast]
20 Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin by saying: Go and lie in wait in the vineyards.
21 And when you see that the daughters of Shiloh have gone out to dance, then you will come out of the vineyards and each one of you will take a wife from among those women who will be in Shiloh. And you will go with them to the land of Benjamin. 
22 And when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, then we will say to them: Grant them to us, for we did not take one wife for each in the war. And it is not you who voluntarily give them in this way otherwise you would be guilty towards your daughter. [For a Benjaminite must not receive a woman from the communities of Israel who waged war against Benjamin, according to what we have sworn]
23 And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives among those who danced according to their numbers. They took them and went away. And they returned to their inheritance, and repaired the cities and dwelt there. 
24 And at the time the children of Israel departed from there, each to his tribe and to his family, and they returned each to his inheritance.
25 In those days there was no king in Israel, and each man was doing what was good in his eyes.
