1 [The lamentation of the prophet Jeremiah, shortly before the destruction of Jerusalem and of the house that had been built by king Solomon to be called by the name of Yahweh the God of Israel (Jeremiah 17:13-18 - 18:18-23)]. I am the man who has seen affliction by the rod of his fury. 
2 He has been my guide [and my hope], but he has brought me into darkness and not into light.
3 Surely he turns his hand against me several times every day.
4 He has caused my flesh and skin to age prematurely, and he has broken my bones [by taking away their energy]. 
5 He has besieged me, and has surrounded me with bitterness and hardship. 
6 He has made me dwell in dark places, like those who have been dead for a long time. 
7 He has surrounded me with a wall, so that I cannot escape. And he has immobilized me with heavy chains.
8 He closes his ear to my prayer when I cry and shout. 
9 He has inclosed my ways with hewn stones, and he has caused my paths to be tortuous.
10 He has been for me like a bear who designed an ambush, like a lion hidden in secret places. 
11 He has diverted my ways, and has torn me in pieces. He has caused me to feel desolate. 
12 He has prepared his bow, and has positioned me to be a target for his arrow. 
13 He has caused the arrows of his quiver to enter my kidneys.
14 I have become a derision for all my people, and I am every day the object of their songs. 
15 He has filled me with bitterness, he has caused me to become drunk with wormwood. 
16 He has also broken my teeth with stones, and covered me with ashes. 
17 You has removed peace from my soul, and I have forgotten the definition of happiness. 
18 And I said to myself: My strength and my hope have perished in Yahweh. [That is to say, Yahweh desires that I die with bitterness in my soul.] 
19 I continually think about my affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the bitterness.
20 My soul has them in remembrance, and my spirit is softened inside me.
21 But here is the thing on which I want to meditate in my heart, the thing that revives my hope. 
22 The kindness of [the spirit of] Yahweh cannot be exhausted, his compassions have no limit. 
23 They are new every morning. Your faithfulness is great [that is to say, the faithfulness of the spirit of Yahweh]. 
24 Yahweh is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope in him. 
25 Yahweh will be good for those who trust in him, for the soul who seeks him continuously. 
26 It is good for man to trust, and to wait for the salvation of Yahweh. 
27 It is good for man to bear the yoke in his youth.
28 He will sit alone and he will not turn away from his hope, because he knows that it is Yahweh who imposes this on him.
29 He will not turn away from his hope even if his mouth is put in the dust. 
30 He will give his cheek to the one who strikes him, he will let himself be filled with reproach. 
31 For the Lord does not continuously reject the one who does not cease to seek him. 
32 Despite the fact Yahweh sends affliction, he will have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. 
33 For he takes no pleasure in afflicting and humiliating the children of men. 
34 While all the powerless of the earth are trampled underfoot. 
35 While the justice due to man is violated before the face of the Most High. 
36 While the one who acts honestly is subverted in his cause. Does not the Lord see it. 
37 Who can say something and see its occurrence if the Lord does not give his permission. 
38 Do not evil and good proceed from the mouth of the Most High. 
39 Why should a man complain to the point of deviating from the right path, when he is afflicted for his sins.
40 Let us consider and probe our ways, and return to Yahweh. 
41 Let us lift up our hearts and our hands to God who is in the heaven. 
42 We have sinned, we have been rebellious. Therefore you have not refrained from afflicting us. 
43 You have covered us with anger and pursued us. You have killed us without pity. 
44 You have wrapped yourself in a cloud, to close access to our prayers. 
45 You have made us an object of contempt and reproach in the midst of the peoples. 
46 All our enemies have opened their mouths against us.
47 Our portion has become fear and pit, destruction and desolation. 
48 Torrents of water flow from my eyes, because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
49 My eyes melts in tears, and do not rest. I cannot contain myself. 
50 Until Yahweh looks down, and has compassion from his dwelling place in heaven. 
51 My eye makes me suffer, because of all the daughters of my city. 
52 They have hunted me like one hunts a bird, those who are wrongly my enemies. 
53 They wanted to destroy my life in the pit, and they threw a stone on me. 
54 Waters flooded my head, and I said: I am destroyed.
55 And I have called on your name, O Yahweh, from the bottom of the pit. 
56 You have heard my voice. You have not closed your ear to my sigh, to my cry. 
57 And you have approached on the day that I called on you. And you have said: Do not be afraid. 
58 O Lord [the spirit of Yahweh], you have defended the cause of my soul, you have redeemed my life. 
59 O Yahweh, you have seen what they have done to me. Do me justice. 
60 You have seen all their vengeance [to reward me for the good advice that I have given them], all their conspiracies against me. 
61 You have heard their reproach, O Yahweh, and all their imaginations against me. 
62 The speeches of my adversaries, and the projects that they form every day against me. 
63 And behold, I am the subject of their songs when they sit down and when they get up. 
64 You will give them a reward, O Yahweh, according to the work of their hands. 
65 You will deliver them to the hardening of their hearts, to your curse against them. 
66 You will pursue them in your anger, and you will destroy them from under the heaven, O Yahweh.
