1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses after the death of Aaron's two sons. They died when they came near to Yahweh. 
2 And Yahweh said to Moses, Speak to your brother Aaron so that he does not enter at all times into the holy place within the veil [that is to say, into the most holy place], before the mercy seat which is on the ark, lest he die. For I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat. 
3 This is how Aaron will enter the sanctuary: He will take a young bullock for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. 
4 He will put on the sacred linen tunic and wear linen underpant on his body. And he will gird himself with a linen girdle, and he will cover his head with a linen tiara. These are the holy garments that he will put on after washing his body in water. 
5 And he will receive from the congregation of the children of Israel two male goats for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. 
6 Then Aaron will offer the bullock of his sin offering, and make an atonement for himself and for his house. 
7 And he will take the two male goats and place them before Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting. 
8 Then Aaron will cast lots on the two male goats, one lot for Yahweh and the other for the scapegoat. 
9 And Aaron will bring the goat on which the lot fell for Yahweh, and he will offer it as a sin offering. 
10 But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat will be placed alive before Yahweh, to make reconciliation through it, and to let it go into the wilderness. 
11 Thus Aaron will offer the bullock of his sin offering, and he will make a reconciliation for himself and for his house, and he will kill the bullock for his sin offering. 
12 And he will take a censer full of burning coals from the altar before Yahweh, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it beyond the veil. 
13 And he will put the incense on the fire before Yahweh, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat which is on the testimony, and he will not die. 
14 And he will take some of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat toward the east. And before the mercy seat he will sprinkle of the the blood with his finger seven times. 
15 Then he will kill the goat of the people's sin offering, and bring its blood beyond the veil. And he will do with this blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat and before the mercy seat. 
16 He will thus purge the tabernacle of the uncleanness of the children of Israel and of their transgressions by which they sinned. And he will do the same for the tent of meeting which is with them in the midst of their uncleanness. 
17 There will be no one in the tent of meeting when he goes in to make atonement in the sanctuary, until he goes out and has made atonement for himself and for his house and for all the assembly of Israel. 
18 Then he will go out and go to the altar that is before Yahweh, and he will make reconciliation on it. He will take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put it on the horns of the altar all around. 
19 He will sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times on the altar, to cleanse it and to sanctify it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel. 
20 When he has completed purging the holy place, and the tent of meeting, and the altar, then he will bring the goat that is alive. 
21 And Aaron will put both his hands on the head of the living goat, and confess on it all the iniquities of the children of Israel and all their transgressions by which they sinned. He will thus put them on the goat's head, and then he will send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who will have this charge. 
22 And so the goat will carry away all their iniquities into an uninhabited land, and he will let the goat loose in the wilderness. 
23 And then Aaron will come into the tent of meeting, and take off the linen garments which he had put on when entering the holy place, and he will leave them there. 
24 And he will wash his body with water in the holy place, and put on his own clothes. And he will go out and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself and for the people. 
25 And he will burn the fat of the sin offering on the altar. 
26 And the one who let go the scapegoat, he will wash his clothes and wash his body in water. After that he will return to the camp. 
27 And the bullock of the sin offering, and the goat of the sin offering, whose blood was brought to make a reconciliation into the tabernacle, they will be taken out of the camp to be burned in fire with their skins, and their flesh, and their dung. 
28 And whoever burns them will wash his clothes, and wash his body in water. After that he will return to the camp. 
29 This is a perpetual law for you: On the tenth day of the seventh month, you will humble your souls and do no kind of work, whether a native or a stranger who sojourns among you. 
30 For on this day the priest will make an atonement for you in order to cleanse you, and you will be cleansed from all your sins before Yahweh. 
31 It will be a sabbath of rest for you, and you will humble your souls. It is a perpetual law. 
32 The priest who has received the anointing, namely the one who has been consecrated to succeed his father in the priesthood, he will put on linen garments which are holy garments and he will make the atonement. 
33 He will purge the holy sanctuary and the tent of meeting, and cleanse the altar, and make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the congregation. 
34 And it will be an everlasting ordinance for you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel once a year for all their sins. And Moses did as Yahweh had commanded.
