1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to Aaron and his sons, so that they may separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel and not defile my holy name with these things. I am Yahweh. 
3 Say to them: Whoever of your descendants throughout your generations after you, who touches the holy things which the children of Israel dedicate to Yahweh, having his uncleanness on him, that person will be cut off from my sight. I am Yahweh. 
4 If one of Aaron’s descendants is a leper or has a common issue, he will not eat of the holy things until he becomes clean. It will be the same for anyone who touches a person soiled by a corpse, and for anyone whose seed of copulation comes out of him. 
5 And for anyone who touches any creeping that makes him unclean, or who touches a man by whom he can take any uncleanness, whatever it may be. 
6 Whoever touches it will be unclean until evening. He will not eat of the holy things unless he washes his body in water. 
7 And after sunset he will be clean. And then he will eat of the holy things for it is his food. 
8 He will not eat from an animal that died by itself or was torn, so as not to be defiled by it. I am Yahweh. 
9 They will keep my ordinance, lest they bear their sin for it and die for it if they defiled it. I am Yahweh who sanctifies them. 
10 No stranger will eat of the holy thing. Neither a guest of the priest nor a hired servant will eat of the holy thing. 
11 But a slave bought by the priest for money may eat of it, and also he who is born in his house. They will eat of his food. 
12 A daughter of a priest married to a foreigner will not eat of the holy things offered by elevation. 
13 But a priest's daughter who is widowed or divorced without having children, and who is returned to her father's house, she will eat of her father's bread as in her youth. But no stranger will eat of it. 
14 If a man unwittingly eats of the holy thing, then he will give to the priest the value of it by adding a fifth. 
15 The priests will not defile the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Yahweh. 
16 The iniquity of the transgressions of the priests in their office is carried by the whole assembly, and this must not happen even while they are eating holy things. I am Yahweh who sanctifies them. 
17 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
18 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them: Whoever of the house of Israel or of the foreigners in Israel, who offers his sacrifice for a vow or for a voluntary offering which they usually offer to Yahweh for a burnt offering. 
19 He will freely offer a male without blemish among oxen or sheep or goats. 
20 You will not offer any that has a blemish, because it will not be acceptable to you. 
21 Whoever brings to Yahweh a peace offering to accomplish his vow or for a freewill offering, whether oxen or sheep, his voluntary offering will be perfect, it will be without blemish. 
22 You will not offer any that is blind, or broken, or mutilated, or having a swelling, a crooked jaw, or scabbed. You will not offer them to Yahweh nor make an offering by fire of them on the altar of Yahweh. 
23 You may offer as a freewill offering a bullock or a sheep whose limb is too long or too short, but this will not be accepted if it is offered for a vow. 
24 You will not offer to Yahweh an animal whose testicles have been bruised, or crushed, or torn or cut, and you will not make an offering of it in your land. 
25 You will not offer the bread of your God of any of those animals even from the hand of a foreigner, because their corruption is in them. There is a blemish in them, therefore they will not be accepted for you. 
26 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
27 When a bullock or a sheep or a goat will be born, it will stay seven days with his mother. And from the eighth day, it will be accepted for a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. 
28 As for the cow or the ewe, you will not kill it with its young both in one day. 
29 When you offer a peace offering for gratitude to Yahweh, you will offer it on your own initiative. [That is to say, this must not have been suggested to you by someone else.] 
30 And the victim will be eaten on the same day. You will not leave any of it until the morning. I am Yahweh. 
31 You will keep my commandments and do them, for I am Yahweh. 
32 You will not defile my holy name, but I will be sanctified among the children of Israel. I am Yahweh who sanctifies you. 
33 The one who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am Yahweh.
