1 If anyone has sinned by not declaring what he has seen or what he knows while he appears as a witness in a case, then he will bear his iniquity. 
2 Or if someone touches something unclean without knowing it, like the carcass of an unclean animal whether from a wild or domestic beast or from a reptile, then he did not do it voluntarily but he is impure when he realizes it and thus he has offended. 
3 Or if he touches any uncleanness of man without paying attention, whatsoever uncleanness it be with which he is defiled, then by the time it comes to his knowledge he becomes guilty of it and he has sinned. 
4 Or if anyone swears with his lips to do evil or to do good by speaking lightly or imprudently, then he will be bonded by his declarations when he realizes it. 
5 Whoever is guilty of any of these things will confess his sin. 
6 And he will bring his transgress offering to Yahweh for the sin he has committed. It will be a female from the flock for this sin offering, whether a lamb or a goat. And the priest will make an atonement for him concerning his sin. 
7 But if he does not have the means to procure a sheep then he will bring for his transgression which he has committed: two turtle doves or two young pigeons to Yahweh. One will be for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. 
8 He will bring them to the priest who will first offer what is for the sin offering. The priest will wring off its head from its neck without separating it. 
9 And he will sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering on one side of the altar, and the rest of the blood will be drained out at the foot of the altar. For it is a sin offering. 
10 And he will make a burnt offering of the other bird, according to the established rules. This is how the priest will make an atonement for him concerning the sin he has committed, and he will be forgiven. 
11 But if he does not have the means to procure two turtle doves or two young pigeons, then he who has sinned will bring for his sin offering one tenth of an ephah of fine flour. He will not put oil on it nor add incense to it, for it is a sin offering. 
12 And he will bring it to the priest. And the priest will take a handful of it for a memorial of the sin, and burn it on the altar like the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. For it is a sin offering. 
13 So the priest will make an atonement for him, concerning the sin that he has committed in one of these previously mentioned situations, and he will be forgiven. And what remains of the offering will be for the priest, as for a meal offering. 
14 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
15 If someone transgresses and sins out of ignorance by taking away things consecrated to Yahweh, then he will bring a ram without blemish for a transgress offering to Yahweh. He will take it from the flock, worth two shekels by your estimation according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for a transgress offering. 
16 And he will restore what he has done wrong in the holy things, and will add to it a fifth part, and will give it to the priest. And the priest will make an atonement for him with the ram of the transgress offering, and he will be forgiven. 
17 If someone unknowingly sins by doing one of the things Yahweh commanded not to do, then by the time it comes to his knowledge he becomes guilty of it and will bear his iniquity. 
18 And he will bring a ram without blemish taken from the flock, worth two shekels by your estimation, for a transgress offering presented to the priest. And the priest will make atonement for him for the sin that he has committed through ignorance, and he will be forgiven. 
19 This is the transgress offering for the transgression committed against Yahweh.
