1 You will not make idols. You will not raise up any pictorial description, nor sculpture, nor carved stone, to bow down before it. For I am Yahweh your God. 
2 You will keep my sabbaths, and revere my sanctuary. I am Yahweh. 
3 If you walk in my ordinances, and keep my commandments, and do them. 
4 Then I will send you rains in due season, and the land will yield its produce, and the trees of the field will yield their fruit. 
5 And your threshing will reach into the vintage, and the vintage will reach into the time of sowing. And you will eat your bread fully, and you will dwell safely in your land. 
6 And I will send peace to the land, and no one will disturb your sleep with fear. And I will destroy the wild beasts from the land, and the sword will not pass through your land. 
7 You will pursue your enemies, and they will fall before you by the sword. 
8 And five of you will pursue a hundred, and a hundred of you will pursue ten thousand, and your enemies will fall before you by the sword. 
9 For I will honor you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you. 
10 You will eat from the old store, and take out the old ones to make way for the new ones. 
11 And I will put my tabernacle among you, and my soul will not abhor you. 
12 I will walk among you, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. 
13 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, who brought you out of bondage. I have broken the bonds of your yoke, and made you walk with your head held high. 
14 But if you do not listen to me and do not do all these commandments. 
15 And if you despise my ordinances, and if your soul abhors my laws so that you do not do all my commandments but break my covenant. 
16 Then I will also do this to you. I will send terror on you, and agitation, and fever, to consume your eyes and make your heart heavy. And you will sow your seed in vain, for your enemies will eat it. 
17 And I will set my face against you, and you will be defeated before your enemies. Those who hate you will rule over you, and you will flee without being pursued. 
18 And if you do not obey me in spite of this, then I will punish you seven times more for your sins. 
19 And I will break the pride of your strength, and I will make your heaven like iron and your land like brass. 
20 And your strength will be exhausted in vain, for your land will not yield its produce and the trees of the land will not yield their fruit. 
21 And if you resist me and do not want to listen to me, then I will bring seven times more plagues on you according to your sins. 
22 I will send wild beasts against you, which will deprive you of your children and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number. And your paths will be deserted. 
23 And if by these things you do not reform towards me but resist me. 
24 Then Then I will also resist you and strike you seven more times for your sins. 
25 And I will bring the sword against you, which will avenge the quarrel of my covenant. And when you gather together in your cities, I will send the pestilence among you and you will be delivered into the hands of the enemy. 
26 When I break the staff of your bread, then ten women will bake your bread in one oven and bring your bread by weight. And you will eat, and you will not be satisfied. 
27 And if despite this you do not obey me but resist me. 
28 Then I will also resist you with fury and punish you seven times more for your sins. 
29 And you will eat the flesh of your sons, and you will eat the flesh of your daughters. 
30 And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your sculptures, and place your corpses on the corpses of your idols, and my soul will abhor you. 
31 And I will make your cities desolate, and bring your sanctuaries to nought. And I will not breathe the pleasant smell of your perfumes from offerings and sacrifices. 
32 And I will make of your land a wilderness, and your enemies who inhabit it will be amazed. 
33 And I will scatter you among the nations, and draw a sword after you. And your land will be desolate, and your cities will be deserted. 
34 Then the land will enjoy its sabbaths while it is desolate, and you will be in the land of your enemies. Then the land will rest and enjoy its Sabbaths. 
35 As long as it is devastated, he will have the rest it did not have on your sabbaths while you lived there. 
36 And for those who will remain of you, I will send a faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies. And the sound of a agitated leaf will make them flee. They will flee as one flees the sword, and they will fall without being pursued. 
37 They will fall on each other as before the sword, without being pursued. You will not be able to stand in the presence of your enemies. 
38 And you will perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will devour you. 
39 And those who will remain of you in the lands of your enemies will be afflicted with sorrow for their iniquity. They will also be afflicted with sorrow for the iniquities of their fathers. 
40 Then they will confess their iniquities, and the wickedness of their father in their transgressions which they have committed against me, and the resistance that they put up against me. 
41 For I also resist them and lead them into the land of their enemies. And then their uncircumcised heart will be humbled, and then they will willingly bear the punishment of their iniquity. 
42 Then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham. I will remember it. And I will remember the land. 
43 The land will also be left by them, and it will enjoy its sabbaths while it remains desolate without them. And they will willingly suffer the punishment of their iniquities, because they have despised my laws, and because their souls have abhorred my ordinances. 
44 But despite this, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them. I will not abhor them to completely destroy them and to break my covenant with them. For I am Yahweh their God. 
45 But I will remember for them the covenant of the past, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations to be their God. I am Yahweh. 
46 These are the ordinances, and the judgments, and the laws, which Yahweh established between himself and the children of Israel at mount Sinai, by the hand of Moses.
