1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words at mount Sinai. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you enter the land that I give you, the land will keep a sabbath to Yahweh. 
3 For six years, you sow your field, and for six years, you prune your vineyard and harvest its products. 
4 But the seventh year will be a sabbath of rest for the land. It will be a sabbath to Yahweh. You will not sow your field, nor prune your vineyard. 
5 You will not reap what grows by itself from your harvest, and you will not gather the grapes of your unpruned vineyard. It will be a year of rest for the land. 
6 And what the land produces during its sabbath will be your food, for you and for your servant, and for your maidservant, and for your hireling, and for the stranger who sojourns with you. 
7 And for your cattle, and for the beasts that are in your land. All its produce will serve as food. 
8 And you will number seven sabbaths of years, seven times seven years, and the length of these seven sabbaths of years will be forty and nine years. 
9 Then on the tenth day of the seventh month you will sound the trumpet. On the day of reconciliation you will sound the trumpet throughout all your land. 
10 And you will sanctify the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty in the land for all its inhabitants. It will be a jubilee for you. Each of you will return to his property, and each of you will return to his family. 
11 The fiftieth year will be the jubilee for you. You will not sow nor reap what the fields produce by itself, nor harvest the unpruned vine. 
12 For it is the jubilee, you will regard it as holy. You will eat what the fields produce by itself. 
13 In this jubilee year, each of you will return to his property. 
14 And if you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from your neighbor's hand, you will not do wrong to one another. 
15 You will buy from your neighbor according to the number of years that separate you from the next jubilee, and he will sell to you according to this number of years of income. 
16 The more years there are, the more you will raise the price. And the fewer years there are, the more you will reduce it. For it is the number of crops that he sells to you. 
17 None of you will deceive his neighbor, but you will fear your God. For I am Yahweh your God. 
18 Therefore you will obey my ordinances, and keep my laws, and do them. And you will dwell safely in the land. 
19 And the land will yield its fruits, and you will eat your fill, and you will live there in safety. 
20 If you say, What will we eat in the seventh year since we will not sow or reap. Will what the land produces by itself be enough. 
21 I will send you my blessing in the sixth year, and it will give you produce in a quantity comparable to three years of harvest. 
22 And you will sow in the eighth year, and eat of the old harvest until the ninth year. Until the new harvest, you will eat the old one. 
23 The land will not be sold to be cut off from the family. For the land is mine, and you are with me as strangers and as sojourners. 
24 Therefore throughout the land you possess, you will establish the right of redemption for the land. 
25 If your brother becomes poor and sells part of his property, then the one who has the right of redemption, his closest relative, will come and redeem what his brother has sold. 
26 And if a man has no one who has the right of redemption, and gets himself the means to redeem it. 
27 Then he will count the years that have passed since the sale, and it is on the basis of this number of years that the quantity to be subtracted from the sale price will be determined. And he will get his goods back. 
28 But if the man cannot get enough to make this restitution, then what he sold will remain in the hands of the purchaser until the year of jubilee. And in the jubilee the purchaser will leave and the man will return to his property. 
29 And if a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then he will have the right of redemption until one year has passed since the sale. His right of redemption will last one year. 
30 But if this house in a walled city is not redeemed before the completion of a whole year, then the property will be cut off from the family of the one who sold it and it will remain in perpetuity for the purchaser and his descendants. The purchaser will not come out of it at the jubilee. 
31 But the houses of villages, which are not surrounded by walls, will be considered the fields of the country. They can be redeemed, and the buyer will come out in the jubilee. 
32 Nevertheless, with regard to the cities of the Levites and their houses there, the Levites will have the perpetual right of redemption. 
33 And if a man buys from the Levites, then in the jubilee he will leave the house that was sold to him and the city where he owned it. For the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel. 
34 But the fields around the cities of the Levites cannot be sold. For it is their perpetual possession. 
35 If your brother becomes poor and his hand is in need near you, then you will support him. And you will do the same for the stranger who dwells in the land, that he may dwell with you. 
36 You will not take interest or advantage from him, but you will fear your God so that your brother will live with you. 
37 You will not give him your money at interest, nor lend him your provision for increase. 
38 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God. 
39 If your brother becomes poor near you and if he sells himself to you, you will not impose on him the work of a slave. 
40 But he will be with you like a hireling and like a sojourner. And he will be at your service until the year of jubilee. 
41 Then he will leave you, he and his children with him, and he will return to his own family, to the property of his fathers. 
42 For they are my servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. They will not be sold as slaves are sold. 
43 You will not rule harshly over him but you will fear your God. 
44 Your male slave and your maidservant will come from the nations around you, and they will be yours. It is from these nations that you will buy the slave and the maidservant. 
45 You can also buy them among the children of strangers who are sojourners among you, and among their families who are with you and whom they will beget in your country. And they will be your property. 
46 And you will leave them as an inheritance to your children after you, so that they may keep them as their property. You will keep them as slaves in perpetuity. But concerning your brothers the children of Israel, none of you will rule harshly over his brother. 
47 If a sojourner or a stranger who dwells near you is rich, and your brother becomes poor near him and sells himself to this stranger or to the family of this stranger. 
48 Then he may be redeemed after he has sold himself. One of his brothers can redeem him. 
49 Or his uncle, or his uncle's son, or one of his close relatives, they have the right to redeem him. Or when he has the resources, he will redeem himself. 
50 It will be counted with the one who bought him from the year that he sold himself until the year of jubilee. And the price to pay will depend on the number of years, and be evaluated like those of a mercenary. 
51 If there are still many years left until the jubilee, then it is according to them that he will pay his redemption by using the value for which he was purchased. 
52 If there are few years left until the jubilee, then he will count it up, and he will pay his redemption for these years. 
53 He will be like a mercenary from year to year to his buyer, who will not treat him harshly in your sight. 
54 And if he is not redeemed in any of these ways, then he will go out in the year of jubilee, he and his children with him. 
55 For it is to me that the children of Israel are slaves. They are my slaves, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.
