1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Command the children of Israel to bring you pure beaten olive oil for the candlestick, so that the lamps may burn continually. 
3 It is outside the veil that is before the testimony, in the tent of meeting, that Aaron will always prepare them in the evening and in the morning before Yahweh. It is a perpetual law for your descendants. 
4 He will arrange the lamps on the pure candlestick before Yahweh continually. 
5 You will take fine flour and bake twelve cakes. Each cake will come from two tenths of an epha. 
6 And you will place them in two rows, six in a row, on the pure table before Yahweh. 
7 You will put pure incense on each row, so that instead of bread it may be a remembrance and an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 
8 Every sabbath he will always set them in row before Yahweh, receiving them from the children of Israel for an everlasting covenant. 
9 And the bread will be for Aaron and his sons, and they will eat it in the holy place. For it is most holy to him of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire by a perpetual ordinance. 
10 And there went out among the children of Israel the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian. This son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel were arguing together in the camp. 
11 And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the name of Yahweh, and cursed. And they brought him to Moses. His mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. 
12 And they kept him under guard until Moses declared what Yahweh commanded. 
13 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
14 Bring the blasphemer out of the camp, and let all those who have heard him put their hands on his head, and let the whole assembly stone him. 
15 And you will speak to the children of Israel and say, Whoever curses his God will bear his sin. 
16 Whoever blasphemes the name of Yahweh will be put to death. The whole assembly will stone him to death. Whether a foreigner or a native, he will die when he blasphemes the name of Yahweh. 
17 And whoever kills a man will be punished with death. 
18 Whoever kills an animal will replace it, beast for beast. 
19 If anyone hurts his neighbor, it will be done to him as he has done. 
20 Fracture for fracture, and eye for eye, and tooth for tooth. The same harm will be done to him as he did to his neighbor. 
21 Whoever kills an animal will replace it, but whoever kills a man will be punished with death. 
22 You will have the same law, it will apply to the foreigner as to the native. For I am Yahweh your God. 
23 Then Moses spoke to the children of Israel. And they brought the blasphemer out of the camp, and they stoned him with stones. And the children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses.
