1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 When a man will have on the skin of his body a swelling or a scab or a white spot, which looks like the plague of leprosy on the skin of his body, then he will be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons who are priests. 
3 And the priest will examine the sore on the skin of the body. And if the hair on the sore has turned white and the plague appears deeper than the skin of the body, then it is a leprous sore. And the priest who has made the examination will declare this man unclean. 
4 But if the white spot on the skin of the body does not appear deeper than the skin, and if the hairs on the spot have not turned white, then the priest will confine him who has the disease for seven days. 
5 And the priest will examine the man on the seventh day. And if the disease seems to him to have made no progress and not to have spread on the skin, then the priest will confine the man a second time for seven days. 
6 And the priest will examine the man again on the seventh day. And if the sore has turned pale and has not spread on the skin, then the priest will declare this man clean for it is a scab. And he will wash his clothes, and he will be clean. 
7 But if the scab has spread in the skin after the man has presented himself to the priest to be declared clean, then he will be examined again by the priest. 
8 And the priest will examine. And if the scab has spread in the skin, then the priest will declare the man unclean for it is leprosy. 
9 When there is a plague of leprosy on a man, he will be brought to the priest. 
10 And the priest will examine. And if the swelling is white on the skin, and has caused the hair on it to turn white, and there is a trace of living flesh in the swelling. 
11 Then it is an old leprosy in the skin of this man's body. And the priest will declare him unclean, and will not confine him for he is unclean. 
12 And if the leprosy breaks out on the skin and covers the whole skin of the person who has the sore, from head to feet and wherever the priest looks. 
13 Then the priest will examine. And when he sees that leprosy covers the whole body, then he will declare the disease to be clean for it is all turned white. So he is clean. 
14 But if there is living flesh on him, then he is unclean. 
15 And when the priest has seen the living flesh, he will declare the man unclean. For the living flesh is unclean, it is leprosy. 
16 If the living flesh changes and becomes white, then he will come to the priest. 
17 And the priest will examine. And if the sore has turned white, then the priest will pronounce the plague clean because it is clean. 
18 A man may have an ulcer on the skin of his body that has been healed. 
19 And in the place where the ulcer was, there is a white swelling or a white spot somewhat reddish. In this case, he will be presented to the priest. 
20 And the priest will examine it. And if it appears deeper than the skin, and the hair on it has become white, then the priest will declare the man unclean for it is a plague of leprosy which erupted into the ulcer. 
21 But if the priest sees that there is no white hair there, and that it is not deeper than the skin but has turned pale, then the priest will confine this man for seven days. 
22 And if it spread on the skin, then the priest will declare the man unclean for it is a sore. 
23 But if it has remained in the same place and has not spread, then it is a scar of the ulcer and the priest will declare the man clean. 
24 If a man's skin is burned by fire, and that a white spot somewhat reddish or pale appear on the trace of the burn. 
25 Then the priest will examine it. And if the hair has turned white there, and it appears deeper than the skin, then it is a leprosy which erupted in the burn. And the priest will declare this man unclean for it is the plague of leprosy. 
26 But if the priest sees that there is no white hair there, and that it is not deeper than the skin but has turned pale, then the priest will confine this man for seven days. 
27 And the priest will examine it on the seventh day. And if it has spread on the skin then the priest will declare the man unclean for it is the plague of leprosy. 
28 But if it remains on the same place, and has not spread over the skin but has become pale, then it is a rising of the burn. And the priest will declare the man clean for it is the scar of the burning. 
29 A man or woman may have a sore on the head or on the beard. 
30 Then the priest will examine the sore. And if it appears deeper than the skin, and there is yellow thin hair, then the priest will declare this man unclean for it is a black spot. It is leprosy of the head or of the beard. 
31 And if the priest sees that the sore of the black spot does not appear deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair on it, then the priest will confine the man who has the sore of black spot for seven days. 
32 And the priest will examine the sore on the seventh day. And if the black spot has not spread, and there is no yellow hair on it, and the black spot does not appear deeper than the skin. 
33 Then the man will shave, but he will not shave the place of the black spot. And the priest will confine the one who has the black spot for seven days. 
34 And the priest will examine the black spot on the seventh day. And if the black spot has not spread on the skin, and if it does not appear deeper than the skin, then the priest will declare the man clean. And he will wash his clothes, and he will be clean. 
35 But if black spot has spread on the skin after he was declared clean. 
36 Then the priest will examine it. And if the black spot has spread on the skin, then the priest will not have to seek for yellow hair for the man is unclean. 
37 But if the black spot appears to him to have made no progress and black hairs have grown there, then the black spot is healed and the priest will declare the man clean. 
38 There may be white spots on the skin of the body of a man or a woman. 
39 Then the priest will examine it. And if the spots on the skin of the body are somewhat dark and white, then they are only spots that have erupted on the skin and the body is clean. 
40 When a man's hair has fallen from his head and he is bald, then he is clean. 
41 And if his head loses hair in the front, then he is bald forehead and he is clean. 
42 But if there is a reddish sore on the bald head or on the bald forehead, then it is a leprosy which has erupted on his bald head or on his bald forehead. 
43 Then the priest will examine it. And if the rising of the sore is reddish white on his bald head or on his bald forehead, and is similar to a leprosy on the skin of the body. 
44 Then he is a leprous man and he is unclean. And the priest will declare him unclean, for the sore is on the head. 
45 And the leper stricken with the plague will wear torn clothes, and will have his head bare. And he will cover his lips, and he will cry: Unclean, unclean. 
46 As long as he has sickness, he will be unclean. For he is unclean and will live alone. And his home will be outside the camp. 
47 A garment may have the plague of leprosy on it, whether a woolen garment or a linen garment. 
48 Whether in the warp or weft of linen or wool, either in a skin or in any object made of skin. 
49 If the sore is greenish or somewhat reddish on the garment or on the skin, or in the warp or in the weft, or on any object of skin, then it is a plague of leprosy and will be shown to the priest. 
50 And the priest will examine the plague and confine the object affected by the plague for seven days. 
51 And he will examine the plague on the seventh day. If the plague has spread on the garment, or in the warp, or in the weft, or on the skin, or on any thing made of skin, then the plague is a fretting leprosy and the object is unclean. 
52 And he will burn the garment, or the warp or the weft of wool or linen, or any object of skin on which the plague is. For it is a fretting leprosy therefore it will be burn with fire. 
53 But if the priest sees that the plague has not spread on the garment, either in the warp or in the weft, or on any object of skin. 
54 Then the priest will order to wash what on which is the plague, and he will confine it a second time for seven days. 
55 And the priest will examine the plague after it had been washed. And if the plague has not changed in appearance though it has not spread, then it is unclean. You will burn it with fire for it is a fret inward, whether the spot is in a bare place or a part of the whole. 
56 And if the priest sees that the plague has become pale after it had been washed, then he will cut it off from the garment, or skin, or warp, or weft. 
57 And if it still appears on the garment, either in the warp or in the weft, or on any skin object, then it is a leprosy that spreads and you will burn with fire the thing on which the plague is. 
58 And you washed the garment, or the warp or weft, or any skin object from which the plague went, then it will be washed the second time and it will be clean. 
59 This is the law concerning the plague of leprosy in a garment of wool or linen, or in the warp, or in the weft, or in any object of skin. It is according to this that they will be declared clean or unclean.
