1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 This is the law for the leper on the day of his purification, what he will bring to the priest. 
3 And the priest will go out of the camp and examine the leper. And if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper. 
4 Then the priest will order that two living and clean birds be taken for him who is to be purified, and cedar wood and a scarlet lace and hyssop. 
5 And the priest will order to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over pure water. 
6 And then he will take the living bird with the cedar wood, and the scarlet lace and the hyssop, and he will dip them with the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the pure water. 
7 And he will sprinkle it seven times on the one who is to be cleansed of leprosy, and clean him. And he will let go the living bird into the fields. 
8 And the one to be cleansed will wash his clothes and shave all his hair, and wash himself in water. And he will be clean. Then he will be able to enter the camp, but he will remain outside his tent for seven days. 
9 And on the seventh day he will shave all his hair, both his head and his beard, and his eyebrows. He will shave all his hair, and he will wash his clothes and wash his body in water, and he will be clean. 
10 And on the eighth day he will take two lambs without blemish, and an ewe lamb a year old without blemish, and three tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering, and a log of oil. 
11 And the priest who performs the purification will present the man to be cleansed and all these things before Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting. 
12 Then the priest will take one of the lambs, and he will offer it as a transgress offering with the log of oil, and he will wave them before Yahweh. 
13 And he will kill the lamb in the place where sin offerings and burnt offerings are killed, in the holy place. For in the transgress offering, as in the sin offering, the victim is for the priest. It is most holy. 
14 And the priest will take blood of the transgress offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 
15 And the priest will take of the log of oil, and he will pour some into the palm of his own left hand. 
16 And the priest will dip the finger of his right hand in the oil that is in his left hand, and he will sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before Yahweh. 
17 And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand, the priest will put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, where the blood of the transgress offering was put. 
18 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand, he will pour on the head of him who is to be cleansed. The priest will thus make atonement for him before Yahweh. 
19 And the priest will offer the sin offering and make atonement for him who is to be cleansed of his uncleanness. And then he will kill the burnt offering. 
20 And the priest will offer the burnt offering and the meal offering on the altar, and make an atonement for that man. And thus he will be clean. 
21 But if he is poor and his resources are insufficient, then he will bring one lamb for a transgress offering to be waved, for his reconciliation, and a tenth part of an ephah of a fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering, and a log of oil. 
22 And two turtle doves or two young pigeons, according to his ability. One for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. 
23 And he will bring all these things to the priest on the eighth day for his purification, at the door of the tent of meeting before Yahweh. 
24 And the priest will take the lamb of the transgress offering and the log of oil. And the priest will wave them from side to side before Yahweh. 
25 And he will kill the lamb of the transgress offering. And the priest will take of the blood of the transgress offering, and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 
26 And the priest will pour of the oil into the palm of his own left hand. 
27 And the priest will sprinkle seven times before Yahweh, with the finger of his right hand, some of the oil which is in his left hand. 
28 Then the priest will put of the oil that is in his hand on the lobe of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the transgress offering. 
29 But the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand, he will put on the head of the one who is to be cleansed, to make atonement for him before Yahweh. 
30 Also he will present one of the turtle doves or one of the young pigeons that he was able to obtain. 
31 Such, I say, as he is able. One for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering with a meal offering. And the priest will make atonement for him who is to be cleansed before Yahweh. 
32 This is the law for the cleansing of one who has a plague of leprosy, and whose resources are insufficient. 
33 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
34 When you enter the land of Canaan which I give you for a possession, it may come to pass that I will place the plague of leprosy in a house in the land which you possess. 
35 Then whoever owns the house will declare it to the priest by saying: There is like a plague of leprosy in my house. 
36 Then the priest will order that the house be emptied before the priest enters to examine the plague, so that everything in the house does not become unclean. After that, the priest will come and examine the house. 
37 And the priest will examine the plague. And if he sees that it presents a greenish or reddish color on the walls of the house, and appears deeper than the wall. 
38 Then the priest will leave the house. And when he is at the door, he will close the house for seven days. 
39 And the priest will return there on the seventh day. And if he sees that the plague has spread in the walls of the house. 
40 Then the priest will order that they take out the stones in which the plague is, and throw them out of the city into an unclean place. 
41 And he will cause the whole interior of the house to be scraped, and the dust that is scraped up will be thrown out of the city into an unclean place. 
42 And they will take other stones and put them in place of the first ones, and take other mortar to plaster the house. 
43 But if the plague returns and breaks out in the house after he has removed the stones, and after he has scraped and plastered the house. 
44 Then the priest will return there and examine. And if he sees that the plague has spread throughout the house, then it is a fretting leprosy in the house and therefore it is unclean. 
45 And they will break down the house, with the stones of it, and the timber of it, and all all the mortar of the house. And they will carry these things out of the city to an unclean place. 
46 And whoever enters the house while it is set apart will be unclean until the evening. 
47 And whoever sleeps in the house will wash his clothes. And whoever eats in the house will wash his clothes. 
48 But if the priest returns to the house and finds that the plague has not spread after the house has been plastered, then he will declare the house clean because the plague is healed. 
49 And to purify the house he will take two sparrows, and cedar wood, and a scarlet lace, and hyssop. 
50 And he will kill one of the sparrows in an earthen vessel over pure water. 
51 And he will take cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living sparrow, and dip them in the blood of the sparrow that was killed and also in the pure water, and sprinkle the house seven times. 
52 And he will cleanse the house with the blood of the sparrow, and with the pure water, and with the living sparrow, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet lace. 
53 And he will let go the living sparrow outside the city into the open fields. He will thus make atonement for the house and it will be clean. 
54 This is the law for every plague of leprosy and black spot. 
55 And for the leprosy of the garment, and of the house. 
56 And for the swelling, and for the scab, and for the white spot. 
57 This is the law of leprosy to teach when a thing is unclean and when it is clean.
