1 This is the law of the transgress offering. It is most holy. 
2 It is in the place where the burnt offering is killed that they will kill the transgress offering. And he will sprinkle its blood on the altar all around. 
3 And he will offer all the fat, the tail and the fat that covers the inwards. 
4 And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them and on the sides, and the large lobe of the liver which he will detach near the kidneys. 
5 Then the priest will burn them on the altar for an offering made by fire to Yahweh. This is a transgress offering. 
6 Every male among the priests will eat of it. It will be eaten in the holy place, for it is most holy. 
7 It is with the transgress offering as with the sin offering, one law for both. The victim will be for the priest who will make atonement. 
8 Also the priest who offers someone's burnt offering will have for himself the skin of the burnt offering he offered. 
9 And the meal offering that is baked in the oven, or prepared on the frying pan, or baked in the pan, it will be for the priest who offered it. 
10 And every meal offering mingled with oil and dried will be for all the sons of Aaron, for one as for the other. 
11 Now this is the law of the peace offerings, which he will offer to Yahweh. 
12 If someone offers it out of gratitude, then he will offer for his peace offering unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers sprinkled with oil, and fine flour fried with the cakes mingled with oil. 
13 He will also add cakes of leavened bread to his peace offering, for gratitude. 
14 And of each offering he will offer one cake for a heave offering to Yahweh, which will be for the priest who sprinkled the blood of the victim of the peace offerings. 
15 And the flesh of his peace offering for gratitude will be eaten on the same day that it is offered. He will not leave any of it until morning. 
16 But if the sacrifice of his offering is for the fulfillment of a vow or for a freewill offering, then the victim will be eaten on the day that he offers it and what remains will be eaten the next day. 
17 But on the third day, what remains of the victim's flesh will be burned with fire. 
18 For if any of the flesh of his peace offering is eaten on the third day, then it will not be accepted as an offering and it will not be taken into account by the one who offered it. It will be an abomination, and whoever eats of it will bear his iniquity. 
19 And the flesh that touches anything unclean will not be eaten, but will be burned with fire. But all those who are pure can eat of the pure flesh. 
20 But whoever eats of the flesh of the peace offering of Yahweh while he is unclean will be cut off from his people. 
21 And whoever touches anything unclean, whether it be the uncleanness of man or an unclean beast or anything unclean, and eats of the flesh of the peace offering of Yahweh, this person will be cut off from his people. 
22 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
23 Speak to the children of Israel by saying: You will not eat the fat of ox, nor of sheep, nor of goat. 
24 And the fat of a dead or torn animal can be used for any purpose, but you will not eat it. 
25 For whoever eats the fat of an animal from which an offering made by fire is offer to Yahweh, this person will be cut off from his people. 
26 In all your dwellings you will not eat any blood, whether of bird or of beast. 
27 Whoever eats any blood will be cut off from his people. 
28 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
29 Speak to the children of Israel by saying: He who offers his peace offering to Yahweh will bring a special part taken from his peace offering before Yahweh. 
30 He will bring with his own hands what is to be consumed by fire before Yahweh. He will bring the fat with the breast, and this breast will be waved from side to side before Yahweh. 
31 Then the priest will burn the fat on the altar, and the breast will be for Aaron and for his sons. 
32 And in your peace offerings you will give the right shoulder to the priest by a heave offering, that is by presenting it by elevation. 
33 Whoever of the sons of Aaron offers the blood and fat of the peace offering will have the right shoulder for his portion. 
34 For I take from the peace offerings of the children of Israel the breast which will be waved from side to side (a wave offering) and the shoulder which will be presented by elevation (a heave offering). And I give them to Aaron the priest and to his sons, by an everlasting law among the children of Israel. 
35 Thus was established the anointing of Aaron and the anointing of his sons, concerning the offerings of Yahweh made by fire in the day when he will present them to serve Yahweh in the priesthood.
36 Thus was established what Yahweh commanded the children of Israel to give them in the day of their anointing. It will be a perpetual law among their descendants. 
37 Thus was established the law of the burnt offering, and of the meal offering, and of the sin offering, and of the transgress offering, and of the consecration, and of the peace offering. 
38 Yahweh commanded it to Moses on mount Sinai, when he commanded the children of Israel to present their offerings to Yahweh in the wilderness of Sinai.
