1 Now Nadab and Abihu the sons of Aaron arose, and they each took a censer and put fire in it. And they put incense there, and offered a strange fire before Yahweh. It was a thing that he had not commanded them. 
2 And a fire came out from before Yahweh and consumed them. And they died before Yahweh. 
3 Then Moses said to Aaron, This is what Yahweh has declared when he said, 'I will be sanctified by those who come near me, and I will be glorified in the presence of all the people'. And Aaron remained silent. 
4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them: Come near, carry your brothers from the sanctuary and bring them out of the camp. 
5 And they came near and carried them in their tunics out of the camp, as Moses had said. 
6 And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar the [other] sons of Aaron: You will not uncover your heads nor tear your clothes, lest you die and Yahweh be angry with all the congregation. Let your brothers, all the house of Israel, mourn for the burning that Yahweh has kindled. 
7 And you will not go out from the entrance of the tent of meeting, lest you die. For the anointing oil of Yahweh is on you. And they did according to the word of Moses. 
8 And Yahweh spoke to Aaron in the following words. 
9 You and your sons will not drink wine or a strong drink when you enter the tent of the meeting, lest you die. It will be a law forever among your descendants. 
10 And so you will be able to distinguish between what is holy and what is unholy, and between what is clean and what is unclean. 
11 And you will be able to teach the children of Israel all the laws which Yahweh gave them through Moses. 
12 And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar the two remaining sons of Aaron: Take the meal offering that remains of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire, and eat it unleavened beside the altar. For it is most holy. 
13 And you will eat it in the holy place, because it is your portion and your sons' portion of the offerings made by fire before Yahweh. For so I am commanded. 
14 And the breast that was waved and the heave shoulder, you will also eat it in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you. For they are given as your portion and your sons' portion of the peace offerings of the children of Israel. 
15 They will bring, with the fat intended to be consumed by the fire, the shoulder that is lifted up and the breast that is waved before Yahweh. And it will be for you and for your children with you by a perpetual law, as Yahweh has commanded. 
16 And Moses sought the goat of the sin offering. And behold, it had been burned. So he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the remaining sons of Aaron. 
17 And he said: Why did you not eat the sin offering in the holy place. It is most holy, and God has given it to you that you may bear the iniquity of the congregation and make atonement for them before Yahweh. 
18 Behold, since the blood of the victim was not brought into the sanctuary, you should have eaten it in the holy place as I commanded. 
19 And Aaron said to Moses, Behold they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering this day before Yahweh, and  you know the things that happened to me. If I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been accepted in the sight of Yahweh. 
20 And when Moses heard it, he was glad.
