1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, I am Yahweh your God. 
3 You will not do what was done by the people of the land of Egypt where you lived, and you will not do what is done in the land of Canaan where I am leading you. You will not follow their customs. 
4 But you will execute my judgments and observe my ordinances. And you will walk according to it. I am Yahweh your God. 
5 Therefore you will keep my statutes and my judgments. And if a man do them then he will live by them. I am Yahweh. 
6 None of you will come near his relative to discover her nudity. I am Yahweh. 
7 You will not uncover the nudity of your father, nor the nudity of your mother. She is your mother, you will not uncover her nudity. 
8 You will not uncover the nudity of your father's wife, for it is your father's nudity. 
9 You will not uncover the nudity of your sister who is your father's daughter or your mother's daughter, whether she was born in the house or outside the house.
10 You will not uncover the nudity of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter. For it is your nudity. 
11 You will not uncover the nudity of your father's wife's daughter, born to your father. For it is your sister. 
12 You will not uncover the nudity of your father's sister, for she is your father's close relative. 
13 You will not uncover the nudity of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's close relative. 
14 You will not uncover the nudity of your father's brother. In other words, you will not go to his wife for she is your aunt. 
15 You will not uncover the nudity of your daughter in law. She is your son's wife therefore you will not uncover her nudity. 
16 You will not uncover the nudity of your brother's wife, for is your brother's nudity. 
17 You will not uncover the nudity of a woman and her daughter, and you will not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover their nudity. For they are your close relatives, and it is wickedness. 
18 You will not take your wife’s sister, and create a rivalry by uncovering her nudity next to your wife who is still alive. 
19 You will not approach a woman during her menstrual impurity, to uncover her nudity. 
20 You will not have an affair with your neighbor's wife, to defile yourself with her. 
21 You will not give [burn] any of your children as an offering to Molech [the false god], and you will not defile the name of your God. I am Yahweh. 
22 You will not copulate with a man as one copulates with a woman. It is an abomination. 
23 You will not copulate with an animal to defile yourself with it. And a woman will not come near a beast to prostitute herself with it. It is an abomination. 
24 You will not defile yourselves in any of these things. For by all these things the nations are defiled, whom I will drive out before you. 
25 And the land is defiled by it. Therefore I will visit iniquity there, and the land will vomit out its inhabitants. 
26 Therefore you will observe my ordinances and my judgments, and commit none of these abominations, whether the native or the foreigner who sojourns among you. 
27 For these are all the abominations that the men of the land have committed, those who have been there before you, and the land is defiled. 
28 Will not the land vomit you if you defile it, as it will vomit the nations that were there before you. 
29 For whoever commits any of these abominations, the person who do them, will be cut off from among their people. 
30 Therefore you will keep my ordinances so that you do not practice any of the abominable customs that were practiced there before you. You will not defile yourself by these practices. I am Yahweh your God.
