1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say, These are the animals you will eat among all the animals of the earth. 
3 You will eat of any animal that has a split hoof, and a cloven foot, and that chews the cud. 
4 But you will not eat of those that chew the cud only, or that only have split hoof. So you will not eat the camel that chews the cud but does not have a split hoof, you will consider it unclean. 
5 And you will not eat the coney, because it chews the cud but does not have a split hoof. You will consider it unclean. 
6 And you will not eat the hare, which chews the cud but does not have a split hoof. You will consider it unclean. 
7 And you will not eat the pig, which has a split hoof and a cloven foot but does not chew the cud. You will regard it as unclean. 
8 You will not eat of their flesh, and you will not touch their dead bodies. You will consider them unclean. 
9 These are the animals that you will eat of all that are in the waters: You will eat whatever has fins and scales in the waters, whether in the seas or in the rivers. You will eat them. 
10 But all that do not have fins nor scales, in the seas or in the rivers, among everything that moves in the waters and everything that lives in the waters, they will be an abomination for you. 
11 They, I say, will be an abomination for you. You will not eat their flesh and you will have their dead bodies in abomination. 
12 You will have in abomination all those that do not have fins and scales in the waters. 
13 These are the birds that you will have in abomination. You will not eat them for they are an abomination: the eagle, and the goshawk, and the osprey.
14 And the vulture, and the kite with its kind.  
15 And all ravens with their kind. 
16 And the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the sea-mew, and the hawk with its kind. 
17 And the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owl. 
18 And the redshank, and the pelican, and the swan.
19 And the stork, the heron with its kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.
20 Also every winged thing that crawl and walks on the four feet, such will be an abomination for you. 
21 But among all the winged things that crawl and walk on the four feet, you will eat those whose legs and feet are joined to jump on the ground. 
22 Of them you will eat these: the grasshopper with its kind, and the solam with its kind, and the hargol with its kind, and the hagab with its kind. 
23 But all the other winged creatures that crawl and have four feet will be an abomination for you. 
24 They will make you unclean. Whoever touches their dead bodies will be unclean until evening. 
25 And whoever carries their dead bodies will wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. 
26 You will consider as unclean every animal that has a split hoof, but that does not have a split foot and that does not chew the cud. Whoever touches them will be unclean. 
27 You will consider as unclean every animal that moves on its paws which mean feet having claws and pads, among all those that move on their four feet. Whoever touches their dead bodies will be unclean until evening. 
28 And whoever carries their dead bodies will wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. You will regard them as unclean. 
29 Also these will be unclean for you among the animals that creep on the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the frog with its kind.
30 And the rat, and the lizard, and the chameleon, and the the turtle, and the mole. 
31 You will consider them unclean among all creeping things. Whoever touches their dead bodies will be unclean until the evening. 
32 And whatever one of their corpses falls on will be unclean, whether it is a wooden utensil, or a garment, or a skin, or a bag, or anything used. It will be put in water and will remain unclean until the evening, and thus he will be purified. 
33 And every earthen vessel into which any of them falls, whatever is found in it will be unclean and you will break the vessel. 
34 All that is used for food and on which such water falls will be unclean. And every drink that can be drunk in all these vessels will be unclean. 
35 Any object on which one of their corpses falls will be unclean. Whether it is the oven or the pot, it will be broken. For they are unclean and they will be unclean for you. 
36 Nevertheless the springs and pits where there is a gathering of water will be clean. But whoever touches their dead bodies will be unclean. 
37 And if any part of their dead bodies falls on any seed that is to be sown, it will be clean. 
38 But if water is poured on the seed, and some of their corpses fall on it, then it will be unclean for you. 
39 And if any of the animals that serves as your food dies by itself or has been torn by other beasts, then whoever touches its dead body will be unclean until evening. 
40 And whoever eats of its dead body will wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. And whoever carries its dead body will wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. 
41 Therefore every creeping thing that creeps on the earth will be an abomination for you. It will not be eaten. 
42 Whatever moves on the breast, whatever moves on four feet or has many feet among all the creeping things that creep on the earth, you will not eat them, for they will be an abomination to you. 
43 You will not defile yourselves with anything that creeps, nor will you make yourselves unclean with them, nor will you defile yourselves thereby. You will not, I say, be defiled by them. 
44 For I am Yahweh your God. You will sanctify yourselves, and you will be holy, for I am holy. And you will not make yourselves unclean by all these creeping things that crawl on the earth. 
45 For I am Yahweh who brought you out of the land of Egypt, with the aim of being your God and so that you may be holy for I am holy. 
46 This is the law concerning beasts and the birds, and every living creature that moves in the waters, and every living creature that creeps on the earth. 
47 So you can distinguish between what is unclean and what is clean, and between the animal that can be eaten and the animal that cannot be eaten.
