1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: [Every firstborn male among all the males who come from a womb belongs to me. But you will redeem the firstborn of the donkey with a lamb, and if you do not redeem it then you will break his neck. And you will redeem every firstborn of your sons.] If someone makes a vow to consecrate something to me for whatever reason, and if it is a person who is consecrated, then that person will belong to Yahweh and be redeemed according to your estimation. 
3 If you have to estimate a male from twenty to sixty years old, then your estimation will be fifty shekels of silver according to the shekel of the sanctuary. 
4 But if it is a woman, then your estimation will be thirty shekels. 
5 And from five to twenty years old, your estimation will be twenty shekels for a male, and ten shekels for a girl. 
6 And from one month to five years old, your estimation will be five shekels of silver for a male, and three shekels of silver for a girl. 
7 And from sixty years old and upward, your estimation will be fifteen shekels for a male, and ten shekels for a woman. 
8 But if the one who made the vow is too poor to pay your estimation, then he will present himself to the priest and the priest will value him. It is according to the resources of the one who makes the vow that the priest will make an evaluation. 
9 And if it is a beast that someone makes the vow to offer to Yahweh, then whatever is given in this way to Yahweh will be holy. 
10 He will not alter it or change it. If the one that he wants to offer has a defect, then he will not change it for another that is better. And if the one that he wants to offer is without defect, then he will not change it either. And if he replaces the beast about which his intention arose with another beast then both will be holy. The one that is changed and the one that replaces, they will both be holy. 
11 If they are unclean animals, of which one do not offer a sacrifice to Yahweh [like a donkey], then he will always present the animal to the priest. 
12 And the priest will estimate it. Whether it has a defect or not, the priest will always make an estimation and this will be the price.
13 And if the man who makes the vow to offer the animal really wants to redeem it, then he will add a fifth to the priest's estimation. 
14 If anyone sanctifies his house by dedicating it to Yahweh, then the priest will estimate it. Whatever the condition of the house, the priest will always make an estimation and this will be the price. 
15 And if he who has sanctified his house wants to redeem it, then he will add a fifth to the priest's estimation, and it will become his again. 
16 If anyone dedicates to Yahweh any piece of land of his property, then your estimation will be according the sowing that can be done there concerning the size of the area. The sowing of a homer of barley will be valued at fifty shekels of silver. 
17 If he dedicates his field in the year of jubilee, then the price will be according to the priest's estimation. 
18 But if it is after the jubilee that he dedicates his field, then the priest will make a reduction on his estimation according to the number of years remaining until the next jubilee. 
19 If he who has dedicated his field wants to redeem it, then he will add a fifth to the price of the priest's estimation and the field will remain his. 
20 And if he does not want to redeem the field and that the priest sells it to another man, then it can no longer be redeemed. 
21 But this field will be holy to Yahweh because it is a field that has been consecrated. And when the purchaser leaves at the time of the jubilee, it will become the property of the priest. 
22 If a man dedicates to Yahweh a field which he has acquired and which is not his property. 
23 Then the priest will set the price to him, according to the number of years remaining until the next jubilee. And [if he wants to redeem it then] this man will pay the appointed price on the same day, as a thing holy to Yahweh. 
24 And in the year of jubilee, the field will return to the person from whom it was purchased. I say, to the one who inherited the land, in case several transactions had taken place. 
25 All your estimation will be according to the shekel of the sanctuary. A shekel is twenty gerahs. 
26 No one will be able to dedicate the firstborn male of the beasts, because it already belongs to Yahweh as a firstborn male. None will dedicate such a thing, whether a bullock or a sheep, for it belongs to Yahweh. 
27 If it is an unclean animal then he will redeem at the price estimated by the priest, adding a fifth. And if it is not redeemed, then it will be sold according to the estimation of the priest. 
28 If a man dedicates to Yahweh anything of his property that he chooses from among all the things that he habitually uses, whether that choice be a man or a beast or a part of the land of his inheritance, then it will neither be sold nor redeemed. For all that is taken from what is ordinarily useful is most holy to Yahweh. 
29 If the ordinarily used thing that is dedicated to Yahweh is a person or an animal, and if the reason is that this person or animal has become useless or dangerous, then that person or animal will be put to death. 
30 Every tithe of the land belongs to Yahweh, whether it is the seed of the soil or the fruit of the trees. It is holy to Yahweh. 
31 But if a man wants to redeem anything from his tithe, then he will add a fifth part to it. 
32 And of every tithe of the bullocks, and of the sheep, and of every animal that is kept under the rod, the tenth will be holy to Yahweh. 
33 He will not examine whether the animal is good or bad, neither will he change it. And if one animal is replaced by another, both will be holy things and will not be redeemed.
34 These are the commandments that Yahweh gave through Moses to the children of Israel at mount Sinai.
