1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say, Any man who has an issue out of his flesh is unclean because of his issue. 
3 And this will be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh abound on his issue or his flesh is stopped at his issue, this is his uncleanness. 
4 Every bed on which he who has an issue lies will be unclean, and every thing on which he sits will be unclean. 
5 And whoever touches his bed will wash his own clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
6 And whoever sits on any thing on which he who has an issue sat will wash his own clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
7 And whoever touches the flesh of him who has an issue will wash his own clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
8 If he who has an issue spits on a clean man, then that man will wash his own clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
9 And whatever saddle the one who has an issue rides on, it will be unclean. 
10 And if anyone touches anything that was under the one who has an issue, then he will be unclean until the evening. And whoever carries such a thing will wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
11 If the one who has an issue has not wash his hand in water and touches a man, then this man will wash his own clothes and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
12 And every earthen vessel that is touched by the one who has an issue will be broken, and every vessel of wood will be rinsed in water. 
13 But if he who has an issue is cleansed of his issue, then he will count seven days for his purification, and wash his clothes, and wash his flesh with pure water. And thus he will be clean. 
14 And on the eighth day he will take two turtle doves or two young pigeons, and go before Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting. And he will give them to the priest. 
15 And the priest will offer them, one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. And the priest will make atonement for him before Yahweh, for his issue. 
16 And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he will wash all his flesh in water and be unclean until the evening. 
17 Any clothing or skin on which the seed of copulation is found will be washed with water and will be unclean until evening. 
18 If a man has an issue of seed of copulation and lie with a woman, then they will both wash themselves with water and be unclean until evening. 
19 And when a woman will have an issue, and her issue in her flesh is blood, then she will be put apart for seven days and whatever touches her will be unclean until evening. 
20 And every bed on which she lies while she is unclean will be unclean, and whatever she sits on will be unclean. 
21 And whoever touches her bed will wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
22 And whoever touches anything she sat on will wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
23 Thus if he touches anything on her bed, or he touches any object on which she sat, then he will be unclean until evening. 
24 And if a man lies with her, and the impurity of this woman touch him, then he will be unclean for seven days and every bed on which he lies will be unclean. 
25 The woman who will have a flow of blood for several days outside of her regular periods, or whose flow will last longer than usual, will be unclean all the time of her flow as in the time of her menstrual indisposition. 
26 Any bed on which she sleeps during this flow will be like the bed of her menstrual flow, and any object on which she sits will be unclean as during her menstrual flow. 
27 And whoever touches these things will be unclean and will wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
28 But when her issue stops, then she will count seven days after which she will become clean. 
29 And on the eighth day she will take two turtle doves or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest at the door of the tent of meeting. 
30 And the priest will offer one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. And the priest will make an atonement for her before Yahweh, for the issue of her uncleanness. 
31 Thus you will separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness lest they die of their uncleanness while they defile my tabernacle which is among them. 
32 This is the law for those who have an issue, and of him whose seed of copulation goes from him so that he is unclean by this. 
33 And for her who has her menstrual flow, and for the man or woman who has an issue, and for the man who lies with an unclean woman.
