1 When anyone offers a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers from the herd, male or female, then he will offer it without blemish before Yahweh. 
2 And he will put his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And the priests the sons of Aaron will sprinkle the blood on the altar all around. 
3 And he will offer part of the peace offering as a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. It will be the fat that cover the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards. 
4 And also the the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them and on the sides, and the large lobe of the liver which he will detach near the kidneys. 
5 And the sons of Aaron will burn it on the altar, with the burnt offering which is on the wood that is on the fire. It is an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
6 If his offering is a peace offering to Yahweh from the flock, male or female, he will offer it without blemish. 
7 If he offer a lamb for his peace offering, then he will bring it before Yahweh. 
8 And he will place his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it before the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron will sprinkle the blood on the altar round about. 
9 And he will offer part of the peace offering as a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. It will be the fat, and the whole tail which he will separate near the spine, and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards. 
10 And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them and on the sides, and the large lobe of the liver which he will detach near the kidneys. 
11 And the priest will burn it on the altar. It is the food of an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 
12 And if his offering is a goat, then he will offer it before Yahweh. 
13 And he will put his hand on the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron will sprinkle the blood on the altar round about. 
14 And he will offer part of the peace offering as a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. It will be the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards. 
15 And the two kidneys, and the fat that is them and on the sides, and the large lobe of the liver which he will detach near the kidneys. 
16 And the priest will burn them on the altar. It is the food of an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell. All the fat is for Yahweh. 
17 This is a perpetual law for your descendants in all your dwellings, so that you do not eat fat or blood.
