1 On the eighth day, Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel. 
2 And he said to Aaron, Take a young calf for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish. And offer them before Yahweh. 
3 And you will speak to the children of Israel by saying, Take a goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old and without blemish for a burnt offering. 
4 Also an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to offer them before Yahweh. And a meal offering mingled with oil. For today Yahweh will appear to you. 
5 Then they brought before the tent of meeting what Moses had commanded. And all the assembly came and stood before Yahweh. 
6 And Moses said, You will do as Yahweh has commanded, and the glory of Yahweh will appear to you. 
7 And Moses said to Aaron, Come near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make atonement for you and for the people. And offer also the offering of the people, and make atonement for them, as Yahweh has commanded. 
8 And Aaron came to the altar and killed the calf for his sin offering. 
9 And the sons of Aaron presented him the blood. And he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar. 
10 And he burned on the altar the fat and the kidneys, and the large lobe of the liver of the sin offering, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
11 But he burned the flesh and the skin with a fire outside the camp. 
12 And he slew the burnt offering. And the sons of Aaron presented him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the altar all around. 
13 And they brought him the burnt offering cut in pieces, with the head, and he burned them on the altar. 
14 And he washed the inwards and the legs, and he burned them on the burnt offering on the altar. 
15 Then he offered the sacrifice of the people. He took the goat which was the sin offering for the people, and slew it and offered it for sin, as the first. 
16 And he offered the burnt offering, and offered it according to the established rules. 
17 And he presented the meal offering, and took a handful and burned it on the altar besides the burnt offering of the morning. 
18 He slew also the ox and the ram, which was the peace offering of the people. And the sons of Aaron presented him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the altar all around. 
19 And they presented him the fat of the ox and the ram, and the tails, and the fat that covers the inwards, and the kidneys and the large lobes of the liver. 
20 And they put the fat on the breasts, and he burned the fat on the altar. 
21 And Aaron waved the breasts and the right shoulders before Yahweh, as Moses commanded. 
22 And Aaron lifted up his hands to the people, and he blessed them. Then he came down from the place he offered the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offering. 
23 And Moses and Aaron entered the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people. And the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people. 
24 And a fire came out from before Yahweh and consumed the burnt offering and the fat on the altar. All the people saw it and they shouted for joy, and fell on their faces.
