1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 You will say to the children of Israel, If any man of the children of Israel or a foreigner who sojourns in Israel gives [burns] one of his children for Molech, then he will be put to death. The people of the land will stone him to death. 
3 And I will set my face against this man and cut him off from among his people, because he has given [has burned] his children for Molech [the false god] and has thus defiled my sanctuary and polluted my holy name. 
4 If the inhabitants of the land turn their eyes away from this man who delivers his children to Molech and do not kill him. 
5 Then I will set my face against this man and against his family, and I will cut him off with all those who thus participate in his sin by playing the whore with him, as he has played the whore with Molech. They will be cut off from among their people. 
6 If anyone go to those who do not invoke me but who invoke other spirits for advice on how to behave in his interactions with others, and to diviners who do not invoke me, to play the whore [namely to prostitute his soul] with them, then I will set my face against this one and cut him off from among his people. 
7 Sanctify yourselves therefore and be holy, for I am Yahweh your God. 
8 And you will keep my ordinances and do them. I am Yahweh who sanctifies you. 
9 If any man curses his father or his mother, he will be punished with death. He has cursed his father or his mother, his blood will fall on him. 
10 And the man who commits adultery with a married woman, because he commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterous man and woman will be punished with death. 
11 If a man copulates with his father's wife, and thus uncovers the nudity of his father, then this man and this woman will be punished with death. Their blood will fall on them. 
12 If a man copulates with his daughter in law, they will both be punished with death. They have committed an abomination, their blood will fall on them. 
13 If a man copulates with a man as one copulates with a woman then both of them have committed an abomination. They will be put to death, their blood will be on them. 
14 If a man takes the daughter and the mother as wives as they are all alive, it is an abomination. They will be burnt in fire both him and they, so that this abomination will not exist among you. 
15 If a man copulates with an animal then he will be punished with death and you will kill the beast. 
16 If a woman approaches an animal to prostitute herself with it, you will kill the woman and the beast. They will be put to death, their blood will fall on them. 
17 If a man takes his sister, his father's daughter or his mother's daughter, and he uncovers her nudity and she uncovers his, then it is an abomination. They will be cut off in the sight of their people. He has uncovered the nudity of his sister, he will bear his iniquity. 
18 If a man copulates with a woman who has her indisposition, and uncovers her nudity, then he has opened her flow and she has uncovered the flow of her blood. They will both be cut off from among their people. 
19 You will not uncover the nudity of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister. He who does so has uncovered his close relative, and they will bear their iniquity. 
20 If a man copulates with the wife of his father's brother, then he has uncovered his uncle's nudity. They will bear their iniquity and die childless. 
21 If a man takes his brother's wife, it is an impurity for he has uncovered the nudity of his brother. They will be childless. 
22 Therefore you will keep all my ordinances and all my judgments, and do them so that the land where I am leading you will not vomit you out. 
23 You will not follow the customs of the nations that I am going to drive out before you. For they have done all these things that I hate.
24 And I said to you: You will inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land where milk and honey flow. I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
25 You will observe the distinction between clean and unclean beast, and between clean and unclean birds. And you will not defile yourselves with beasts and birds, nor with any creeping thing of the earth that I taught you to distinguish as unclean. 
26 You will be holy to me because I Yahweh am holy, and I have separated you from other peoples so that you may be mine. 
27 If a man or woman has a spirit of divination or a spirit of prediction that does not come from a simple keeping of my commandments but requires other practices, then they will be stoned to death. Their blood will be on them.
