1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: The feasts of Yahweh which you will proclaim will be holy convocations. These are my holidays. 
3 Six days you will work, but the seventh day is the sabbath of rest, a holy convocation. You will do no work on that day, it is the sabbath of Yahweh in all your dwellings. 
4 These are the feasts of Yahweh, the holy convocations which you will proclaim at their appointed times. 
5 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at the evening, it will be the Passover of Yahweh. 
6 And on the fifteenth day of this month will be the feast of unleavened bread to Yahweh. For seven days you will eat unleavened bread. 
7 On the first day you will have a holy convocation, you will not do any servile work. 
8 And you will offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh for seven days. And on the seventh day there will be a holy convocation, you will not do any servile work. 
9 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
10 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you enter the land I give you, and reap the harvest there, you will bring to the priest a sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest. 
11 And he will wave the sheaf before Yahweh from side to side, that it may be accepted. The priest will wave it in the morning after the sabbath. 
12 And that day when you wave the sheaf, you will offer a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to Yahweh. 
13 And the meal offering of it will be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to Yahweh of a pleasant smell. And the drink offering of it will be the fourth part of a hin of wine. 
14 You will eat neither bread, nor roasted or crushed grain nor fresh ears, until the very day you bring an offering to your God. It is a perpetual law for your descendants in all your dwellings. 
15 You will count seven whole weeks from the day after the sabbath, from the day when you bring the sheaf to be waved from side to side. 
16 You will count fifty days until the day after the seventh sabbath and then you will bring a new meal offering to Yahweh. 
17 You will bring bread from your habitations for the wave offering. They will be two loaves of two tenths of an ephah of fine flour. They will be baked with leaven for first fruits to Yahweh. 
18 You will offer with the bread seven lambs a year old without blemish, and a young bullock and two rams. They will be for a burnt offering to Yahweh, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, for a sacrifice made by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
19 Then you will offer a male goat for a sin offering, and two lambs a year old for peace offerings. 
20 And the priest will wave them from side to side with the bread of the first fruits before Yahweh, and with the two lambs. They will be holy to Yahweh for the priest. 
21 This very day you will proclaim the feast, and you will have a holy convocation. You will not do any servile work. It is a perpetual ordinance in all your dwellings throughout your generations. 
22 When you reap the harvest of your land, you will not reap all the corners of your field. And you will not gather what remains of your harvest, but you will leave it to the poor and the stranger. I am Yahweh your God. 
23 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
24 Speak to the children of Israel and say: In the seventh month, on the first day of the month you will have a sabbath for the remembrance of blowing the trumpets, a holy convocation. 
25 You will not do any servile work, but offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh [according to the numbers indicated by the law for the first day of any month]. 
26 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
27 The tenth day of this seventh month will be the day of reconciliation. You will have a holy convocation, and you will humble your souls. And you will offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh. 
28 And you will do no work on the same day. For it is the day of reconciliation, to make an atonement for you before Yahweh your God. 
29 Anyone who does not humble himself on the same day will be cut off from his people. 
30 Whoever does any work on the same day, I will destroy the same from among his people. 
31 You will not do any work. It is a perpetual law throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
32 This will be a sabbath of rest for you, and you will humble your souls. In the ninth day of the month from the evening, until the following evening, you will celebrate your sabbath. 
33 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
34 Speak to the children of Israel and say: On the fifteenth day of this seventh month will be the feast of tabernacles for seven days to Yahweh. 
35 On the first day there will be a holy convocation. You will not do any servile work. 
36 For seven days you will offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh. And on the eighth day you will have a holy convocation, and you will offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh. This is the solemn assembly, you will not do any servile work. 
37 These are the feasts of Yahweh which you will call holy convocations, to offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh. The burnt offerings, the meal offerings, the sacrifices, and the drink offerings, each one on its own day. 
38 You will also keep the sabbaths of Yahweh, and you will continue to give your gifts to Yahweh, and all your freewill offerings, and all your offerings for the vows. 
39 On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered the fruits of the land, you will celebrate a holy feast to Yahweh for seven days. The first day will be a sabbath of rest, and the eighth day will be a sabbath of rest. 
40 And on the first day you will take the fruits of the goodly trees, and the branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and the willows of the stream, and you will rejoice before Yahweh your God for seven days. 
41 You will celebrate this feast to Yahweh every year, for seven days. It is a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations. You will celebrate it in the seventh month. 
42 You will dwell in booths for seven days. All those who are born Israelites will dwell in booths. 
43 So that your posterity may know that I have made the children of Israel dwell in booths [tents], when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God. 
44 This is how Moses declared the feasts of Yahweh to the children of Israel.
