1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say, If anyone sins through ignorance [an involuntary action is a circumstantial ignorance] by doing any of the things that Yahweh commanded not to do. 
3 If it is the priest who has received the anointing who has sinned and thus made the people guilty, then for the sin he has committed he will offer a young bullock without blemish to Yahweh, as a sin offering. 
4 And he will bring the bullock to the door of the tent of meeting before Yahweh. And he will put his hand on the head of the bullock, and kill the bullock before Yahweh. 
5 And the anointed priest will take some of the blood of the bullock and bring it into the tent of meeting. 
6 And the priest will dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle the blood seven times before Yahweh in front of the veil of the sanctuary. 
7 And the priest will also put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of incense, which is before Yahweh in the tent of meeting. And he will pour all the rest the blood of the bullock at the foot of the altar of burnt offerings, which is at the door of the tent of meeting. 
8 And he will remove all the fat of the bullock of the sin offering. The fat that covers the inwards and all the fat that is about the inwards. 
9 And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them and on the sides, and the large lobe of the liver which he will detach near the kidneys. 
10 The priest will remove these parts as they were removed from the bullock of a peace offering, and the priest will burn them on the altar of burnt offerings. 
11 But the skin of the bullock, and all its flesh with its head, and its legs, and its inwards, and its dung, all this will be transported. 
12 He will carry the whole bullock out of the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are thrown. And he will burn it with fire on wood, it will be burned where the ashes are thrown. 
13 And if the whole assembly of Israel sinned through ignorance by doing any of the things Yahweh commanded not to do, and so they offended without realizing it. 
14 And if the sin which they have committed comes to be discovered, then assembly will offer a young bullock for the sin and bring it before the tent of meeting. 
15 And the elders of Israel will put their hands on the head of the bullock before Yahweh, and one will kill the bullock before Yahweh. 
16 And the anointed priest will bring some of the blood of the bullock into the tent of meeting. 
17 And the priest will dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh, before the veil. 
18 And he will put some of the blood on the horns of the altar that is before Yahweh in the tent of the meeting. And he will pour all the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar of burnt offerings, which is at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
19 And he will remove all the fat from the bullock, and burn it on the altar. 
20 And the anointed priest will do with this bullock as he did with the bullock of his own sin which is mentioned previously, he will do the same with this one. This is how the priest will make an atonement for them, and they will be forgiven. 
21 And he will carry the bullock out of the camp, and he will burn it as he burned the other bullock. For it is a sin offering for the whole assembly. 
22 If it is a chief who has sinned through ignorance by doing any of the things that Yahweh his God commanded not to do, and so he has offended without realizing it. 
23 And if he finds out the sin he has committed or it has been shown to him, then he will offer as a sacrifice a male goat without blemish. 
24 And he will lay his hand on the head of this male goat, and kill it in the place where burnt offerings are killed before Yahweh. For it is a sin offering. 
25 And the priest will take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offerings. And he will pour the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar of burnt offerings. 
26 And he will burn all its fat on the altar, as the fat of a peace offering. This is how the priest will make an atonement for the sin of that chief, and that chief will be forgiven.
27 If it is one of the people, distinct from the anointed priest and a chief, who sinned through ignorance by doing any of the things Yahweh commanded not to do and so has offended without realizing it. 
28 And if he finds out the sin he has committed or it has been shown to him, then he will offer as a sacrifice a female goat without blemish. 
29 And he will lay his hand on the head of this sin offering, and kill it in the place where burnt offerings are killed. 
30 And the priest will take some of the blood of the victim with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offerings. And he will pour all the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar. 
31 And the priest will remove the fat, as the fat is removed from a peace offering. And the priest will burn it on the altar for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. This is how the priest will make an atonement for him, and he will be forgiven. 
32 And if he offers a lamb for the sin offering, then he will offer a female without blemish. 
33 And he will place his hand on the head of this sin offering, and kill it for a sin offering in the place where burnt offerings are killed. 
34 And the priest will take some of the blood of the victim with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offerings, and he will pour the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar. 
35 And he will remove all the fat, as the fat is taken from a lamb of a peace offering. Then the priest will burn it on the altar as the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. This is how the priest will make an atonement for him concerning the sin that he has committed, and he will be forgiven.
