1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the whole assembly of the children of Israel and say to them: You will be holy, for I Yahweh your God am holy. 
3 Each of you will respect his mother and his father, and you will keep my sabbaths. I am Yahweh your God. 
4 You will not turn to idols, and you will not make for yourselves molten gods. I am Yahweh your God. 
5 And when you offer a peace offering to Yahweh, you will offer it on your own initiative. [That is to say, this must not have been suggested to you by someone else.] 
6 The victim will be eaten on the day that you offer it, or the next day. And whatever remains until the third day will be burned in the fire. 
7 For if one eats of it on the third day, it will be unclean and it will not be accepted. 
8 Whoever eats it will bear his iniquity, because he has defiled what is holy to Yahweh. And this man will be cut off from his people. 
9 When you reap the harvest of your land, you will not reap every corner of your field and you will not gather what remains to be gleaned. 
10 You will not pick the remaining grapes from your vineyard to clean it thoroughly, nor gather together all that has fallen from it. But you will leave this to the poor and stranger. I am Yahweh your God. 
11 You will not steal with or without violence, and you will not lie or deceive one another. 
12 You will not swear falsely by my name, and more generally you will not defile the name of your God. I am Yahweh. 
13 You will not oppress your neighbor and you will not steal anything by violence. You will not withhold the worker's salary all night until the morning. 
14 You will not curse a deaf man, nor present anything before a blind man to cause him to stumble, for you will fear your God. I am Yahweh. 
15 You will not commit iniquity in your judgments. You will not favor the poor, nor honor the mighty, but you will judge your neighbor with justice. 
16 You will not spread slander or even just false stories among your people. You will not participate in any injustice done to your neighbor, possibly by hiding an information that you have. 
17 You will not hate your brother in your heart, but you will surely reprimand your neighbor and not bear a sin because of him. 
18 You will not take revenge, nor bear a grudge against the children of your people, but you will love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh. 
19 You will not mate cattle of two different species. You will not sow your field with two kinds of seeds. You will not wear clothing woven of two kinds of thread, such as linen and wool. 
20 If a man copulates with a woman, and this woman is a slave who is betrothed to another man and who has not been redeemed or freed, then they will be punished but not punished with death, because she is not freed. 
21 And the man will bring a transgress offering to Yahweh, a ram for a transgress offering at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
22 Then the priest will make an atonement for him with the ram of the transgress offering before Yahweh, concerning the sin he committed. And the sin he committed will be forgiven. 
23 When you enter the land where I am leading you and plant all kinds of fruit trees there, you will consider the fruit uncircumcised. For three years they will be uncircumcised for you, and you will not eat them. 
24 And in the fourth year all the fruits will be holy to the praise of Yahweh. 
25 And in the fifth year you will freely eat the fruits and continue to harvest them. I am Yahweh your God. 
26 You will not eat flesh with its blood. You will not observe snakes or clouds or anything in nature to make predictions about human behavior. 
27 You will not cut the corners of your hair round [or in any other fancy way] on your head, and you will not shave the corners of your beard. 
28 You will not make any cut in your flesh for the dead, and you will not print any symbol on yourselves. I am Yahweh.  
29 You will not desecrate your daughter by making her a prostitute, lest the land become a prostitute and full of crime. 
30 You will keep my sabbaths, and revere my sanctuary. I am Yahweh. 
31 You will not go to those who do not invoke me but who invoke other spirits for advice on how to behave in your interactions with others. And you will not go to diviners who do not use rational means and who do not invoke me. Do not seek them lest you defile yourself with them. I am Yahweh your God. 
32 You will rise before the white hairs and thus honor the person of the old man. You will fear your God. I am Yahweh. 
33 If a foreigner comes to stay with you in your country, you will not oppress him. 
34 But you will treat the foreigner who stays among you as a native among you. You will love him as yourselves, for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God. 
35 You will not do wrong in judgments, or in measures of dimensions, or in measures of weight, or in measures of capacity. 
36 You will have true scales, and true weights, and a true ephah, and a true hin. I am Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
37 You will observe all my ordinances and all my judgments, and do them. I am Yahweh.
