1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and you will say to them: This is what Yahweh has commanded. 
3 If a man of the house of Israel kills a bullock or a lamb or a goat in the camp, or kills it outside the camp. 
4 And bring it not to the door of the tent of meeting to make an offering to Yahweh before the tabernacle of Yahweh, then the blood will be imputed to this man. He has shed blood, therefore this man will be cut off from among his people. 
5 Therefore the children of Israel, instead of sacrificing their victims in the fields, will bring them to Yahweh by presenting them to the priest at the door of the tent of meeting, and will offer them for peace offerings to Yahweh. 
6 Then priest will sprinkle its blood on the altar of Yahweh at the door of the tent of meeting, and burn the fat for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
7 And they will no more offer their sacrifices to the strangers gods with whom they play the whore. It will be an everlasting ordinance for them throughout their generations. 
8 And you will say to them, If any man of the house of Israel, or any foreigner who stays among them, make a burnt offering or a sacrifice. 
9 And do not bring it to the door of the tent of meeting to offer it to Yahweh, then that man will be cut off from his people. 
10 Concerning any man of the house of Israel or of the foreigners who stay among them, if he eats blood of any kind then I will set my face against this person who eats blood and I will cut him off from among his people. 
11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you to offer on the altar as an atonement for your souls. For this blood will make atonement for the soul. 
12 Therefore I said to the children of Israel: None of you will eat blood, and the foreigner who sojourns among you will not eat blood. 
13 If any of the children of Israel or of the foreigners who stay among them hunts an animal or a bird that can be eaten, he will shed its blood and cover it with dust. 
14 For the life of all flesh is its blood, it is joined to its life. Therefore I said to the children of Israel: You will not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it will be cut off. 
15 If any person eats of an animal that died by itself or was torn by other beasts, whether native or foreign, then he will wash his clothes and wash himself in water, and will be unclean until evening. After that he will be clean. 
16 But if he does not wash his clothes and wash his body, then he will bear his iniquity.
