1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments and the anointing oil, and a bullock for the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread. 
3 And gathers the whole assembly at the door of the tent of meeting. 
4 And Moses did as Yahweh commanded him, and all the congregation gathered together at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
5 And Moses said to the assembly, This is what Yahweh has commanded to be done. 
6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water. 
7 And he put the tunic on Aaron, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe. And he placed on him the ephod which he girded with the embroidered belt of the ephod, and he tied it on him. 
8 And he put the breastplate on him, and put in the breastplate the Urim and the Thummim. 
9 And he put the tiara on his head, and on the front of the tiara he put the golden plate of the holy crown, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
10 And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the sanctuary and all that was in it, and sanctified them. 
11 And he sprinkled it seven times on the altar, and he anointed the altar and all its utensils, and the basin for washing and its base, to sanctify them. 
12 And he poured out anointing oil on Aaron's head, and anointed him, to sanctify him. 
13 And Moses also brought Aaron's sons. And he clothed them with tunics, and girded them with belts, and put bonnets on their heads, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
14 Then he brought the bullock for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bullock of the sin offering. 
15 And Moses slew it. And he took some of its blood and put it with his finger on the horns of the altar round about, and purified the altar. And he poured the rest of the blood at the foot of the altar. So he sanctified it, to make atonement for it. 
16 Then he took all the fat that covers the inwards, and the large lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses burned it on the altar. 
17 But the bullock, and its skin, and its flesh, and its dung, he burned all with a fire outside the camp as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
18 And he brought the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the ram's head. 
19 And Moses killed it, and sprinkled the blood on the altar all around. 
20 And Moses cut the ram into pieces, and burned the head with the pieces and the fat. 
21 And he washed the inwards and the legs with water, and he burned the whole ram on the altar. For it was a burnt offering for a pleasant smell made by fire to Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded. 
22 And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram. 
23 And Moses slew the ram and took some of its blood. And he put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
24 Then Moses brought Aaron's sons near. And he put of the blood on the lobe of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot. And he sprinkled the blood on the altar all around. 
25 And he took the fat and the tail, and all the fat that covers the inwards, and the large lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat, and the right shoulder. 
26 And he also took from the basket of unleavened bread that was before Yahweh, an unleavened cake and a cake of oiled bread and a wafer, and he placed them on the fat and on the right shoulder. 
27 And he put all these things in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and waved them from side to side before Yahweh. 
28 Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar for a burnt offering. It was the sacrifice of consecration, it was an offering made by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
29 And Moses took the breast of the ram of consecration, and waved it from side to side before Yahweh. For this was Moses' portion, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
30 And Moses took of the anointing oil and of the blood that was on the altar. And he sprinkled it on Aaron and on his garments, and on the sons of Aaron and on their garments. And he sanctified Aaron and his garments, and Aaron's sons and their garments. 
31 And Moses said to Aaron and his sons, Cook the flesh at the entrance to the tent of meeting. There you will eat it with the bread that is in the basket of consecration, as I commanded by saying, Aaron and his sons will eat it. 
32 But you will burn with fire what remains of the flesh and of the bread. 
33 For seven days you will not depart from the entrance of the tent of meeting, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled. Seven days will be devoted to you. 
34 Like what was done today, Yahweh has commanded this to be done for you as an atonement. 
35 Therefore you will remain at the entrance to the tent of meeting seven days, day and night, and you will observe the commandments of Yahweh. And thus you will not die, for this is the commandment I received. 
36 And Aaron and his sons did all that Yahweh commanded through Moses.
