1 And when anyone offers a meal offering to Yahweh, his offering will be of fine flour. And he will pour oil on it, and add incense to it. 
2 And he will bring it to the priests the sons of Aaron. And the priest will take a handful of this fine flour, and of the oil with all the incense. And the priest will burn this for a memorial on the altar. For it is an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
3 And what remains of the meal offering will be for Aaron and his sons. It is most holy among the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. 
4 And if you bring a meal offering of what is baked in the oven, it will be an unleavened cake of fine flour mingled with oil, or an unleavened wafer anointed with oil. 
5 And if your meal offering is a cake baked in a pan, it will be of fine flour mingled with oil and without leaven. 
6 And you will part it into pieces, and pour oil on it. For it is a meal offering. 
7 And if your meal offering is a cake baked on the frying pan, it will be made from fine flour mingled with oil. 
8 And you will bring the meal offering that is made of these things to Yahweh. And it will be presented to the priest, and he will bring it to the altar. 
9 And the priest will take from the meal offering what is to be offered for a memorial, and will burn it on the altar. For it is an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
10 And that which is left of the meal offering will be for Aaron and his sons. It is most holy among the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. 
11 All the meal offerings which you will offer to Yahweh will be made without leaven. For you will not burn leaven or honey in any offerings of Yahweh made by fire. 
12 You may offer them to Yahweh in the offerings of the first fruits, but they will not be burnt on the altar for a pleasant smell. 
13 You will put salt on all your meal offerings. You will not suffer the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your meal offerings, but on all your offerings you will offer salt. 
14 And if you offer a meal offering of the first fruits to Yahweh, you will offer for the meal offering of your first fruits ears of corn roasted in the fire, and the threshed wheat from the green ears. 
15 And you will pour oil on it, and add incense to it, For it is a meal offering. 
16 And the priest will burn the memorial if it, a portion of the crushed grains and the oil of it with all the incense. For it is an offering to Yahweh made by fire.
