1 And Yahweh said to Moses, Speak to the priests the sons of Aaron and say to them: A priest will not make himself unclean among his people because of the dead. 
2 Except by his closest relatives like his mother, or his father, or his son, or his daughter, or his brother. 
3 And also for his sister, still a virgin, who is close to him and who has not had a husband. He can express his sorrow for her. 
4 He will not sorrow over a prince of his people, to defile himself. 
5 The priests will not make a bald spot on their heads, nor shave off the corners of their beards, nor make any cuttings in their flesh. 
6 They will be holy to their God and will not profane the name of their God. For they offer sacrifices made by fire to Yahweh, and the bread of their God. Therefore they will be holy. 
7 They will not take to wife a whore or a dishonored woman, nor will they take a woman who divorced from her husband. For they are holy to their God. 
8 You will consider a priest holy, for he offers the bread of your God. He will be holy to you, because I Yahweh who sanctifies you am holy. 
9 If a priest's daughter dishonors herself by playing the whore, then she dishonors her father therefore she will be burned with fire. 
10 The priest who has superiority over his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil was poured and who has been consecrated to put on the holy garments, will not uncover his head nor tear his clothes. 
11 He will not go to any dead body, nor make himself unclean by his father or by his mother. 
12 He will not go out of the sanctuary, and will not profane the holy place of his God. For the anointing oil of his God is a crown on him. I am Yahweh. 
13 He will take a virgin as his wife. 
14 He will not take a widow or a divorced woman as his wife, or a dishonored woman or a whore. But he will take as his wife a virgin from among his people. 
15 He will not defile his descendants among his people, for I am Yahweh who sanctifies him. 
16 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
17 Speak to Aaron and say: Whoever of your descendants throughout their generations who has a bodily defect will not come near to offer the bread of his God. 
18 For whoever has a blemish will not approach: a blind, a lame, a flat nose, a deformed from whatever member. 
19 A man who has a broken foot or a broken hand. 
20 A crook back, a bleary eyes, an eye with any blemish, a crooked jaw, one with a scabbed, a crushed testicle. 
21 None of the descendants of Aaron the priest who has a blemish will come near to offer the sacrifices of Yahweh made by fire. He has a blemish, he will not come near to offer the bread of his God. 
22 He will eat of the bread of his God, both of the most holy and of the holy. 
23 But he will not enter the veil that covers the testimony nor come near the altar, because he has a blemish, lest he defile my sanctuaries. For I am Yahweh who sanctifies them. 
24 This is what Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel.
