1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 If anyone sins and is unfaithful to Yahweh by acting falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit or of bargain, or by being guilty of theft committed with or without violence. 
3 Or by denying having found a lost thing, or by making a false oath likely to constitute a sin. 
4 When, I say, he sins and transgresses in these ways, he will then return the thing that he stole, or the thing that he took by force, or the thing that he was entrusted to keep, or the lost thing that he found. 
5 Or whatever thing he made a false oath about. He will restore it in its entirety and will add a fifth to it, and will return this to the owner on the same day that he offers his transgress offering. 
6 And he will bring a ram without blemish taken from the flock and worth two shekels by your estimation, for a transgress offering presented to the priest, for his guilt before Yahweh. 
7 And the priest will make an atonement for him before Yahweh, and he will be forgiven whatever fault he is guilty of. 
8 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
9 Command Aaron and his sons by saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. The burnt offering will remain on the hearth of the altar all night until the morning, and the fire will burn on the altar. 
10 And the priest will put on his linen garment, and put his linen underpant on his flesh. And he will remove the ashes made by the fire which consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he will put it near the altar. 
11 Then he will take off his garment and put on another, and take the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. 
12 But the fire will continue to burn on the altar, it will not be extinguished. Every morning the priest will light wood there and lay the burnt offering on it, and he will burn there the fat of the peace offering. 
13 The fire will burn continuously on the altar, it will never be extinguished. 
14 Now this is the law of the meal offering. The sons of Aaron will offer it in the presence of Yahweh before the altar. 
15 The priest will take a handful of the fine flour of the meal offering and of the oil, with all the incense added to the meal offering. And he will burn it on the altar for a pleasant smell, as a memorial to Yahweh. 
16 What remains of the offering will be eaten by Aaron and his sons. They will eat it unleavened in the holy place, in the courtyard of the tent of meeting. 
17 It will not be baked with leaven. This is the portion I gave them of my offerings made by fire. For it is like the sin offering and the transgress offering. 
18 Every male among the children of Aaron will eat of it. It is an everlasting law for your descendants concerning the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. Whoever touches it will be sanctified. 
19 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
20 This is the offering that Aaron and his sons will offer to Yahweh in the day he is anointed. A tenth of an ephah of fine flour, for a perpetual meal offering. Half of it in the morning and half in the evening. 
21 It will be prepared in a frying pan with oil, for you will bring it fried. And you will offer the baked pieces of the meal offering for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
22 And the priest who will be anointed among the sons of Aaron to succeed him, he will also make this offering. It is an ordinance of Yahweh forever that it will be burned completely. 
23 For every meal offering of a priest will be completely burned. It will not be eaten. 
24 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
25 Speak to Aaron and to his sons by saying, This is the law of the sin offering: It is in the place where the burnt offering is killed that the sin offering will be killed before Yahweh, for it is most holy. 
26 And the priest who offers the sin offering will eat it. It will be eaten in the holy place, in the courtyard of the tent of meeting. 
27 Whoever touches its flesh will be sanctified. And if there is a sprinkling of its blood on a clothing, then you will wash that on which it was sprinkled in the holy place 
28 And the earthen vessel in which the offering was baked will be broken. If it was cooked in a brazen vessel, then it will be cleaned and washed with water.
29 Every male among the priests will eat of it, for it is most holy. 
30 But no sin offering will be eaten when its blood has been brought into the tent of meeting to make reconciliation in the holy place, for it will be burned with fire.
