1 Yahweh called Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: If any of you offer a sacrifice to Yahweh, you will offer your sacrifice of the cattle, of the herds and of the flocks. 
3 If his sacrifice is a burnt offering of the herds, he will offer a male without blemish. He will offer it of his own will at the door of the tent of meeting before Yahweh. 
4 And he will put his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it will be acceptable to Yahweh and serve as an atonement for him. 
5 And he will kill the bullock before Yahweh. And the priests the sons of Aaron will offer the blood, and sprinkle it all around on the altar that is at the door of the tent of meeting. 
6 And he will skin the burnt offering and cut it into pieces. 
7 And the sons of Aaron the priest will put fire on the altar, and arrange wood on the fire. 
8 Then the priests the sons of Aaron will lay the pieces of the victim, including its head and its fat, on the wood that is in the fire which is on the altar. 
9 And he will wash the inwards and the legs with water, and the priest will burn all on the altar. For it is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
10 And if his sacrifice for the burnt offering is of the flocks, as of the sheep or of the goats, then he will offer a male without blemish. 
11 And he will kill it on the north side of the altar before Yahweh. And the priests the sons of Aaron will sprinkle its blood on the altar round about. 
12 And he will cut it into pieces, separating its head and its fat. And the priest will put them in order on the wood that is in the fire which is on the altar. 
13 And he will wash the inwards and the legs with water, and the priest will offer the whole and burn it on the altar. For it is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
14 And if his sacrifice to Yahweh is a burnt offering of birds, then he will offer his sacrifice of turtle doves or of young pigeons. 
15 And the priest will bring it to the altar, and wring off its head and burn it on the altar. And he will drained out the blood against one side of the altar. 
16 And he will take off its crop with its feathers and throw them beside the altar towards the east, in the place of the ashes. 
17 And he will tear the wings without detaching them. And the priest will burn the it on the altar, on the wood that is in the fire. For it is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh.
