1 Then Jesus said to his disciples: It is impossible for offenses not to occur, but woe to him by whom they come.  
2 It is would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble. 
3 Take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins against you, then rebuke him. And if he repents, then forgive him. 
4 And if he sins against you seven times in one day, and turns to you seven times and says, 'I repent', then you will forgive him. 
5 And the apostles answered and said to the Lord: Increase our faith. 
6 And the Lord said: If your faith was as big as a grain of mustard seed, then you could say to this sycamore tree, 'Uprooted yourself and plant yourself in the sea', and the tree would obey you. 
7 If one of you have a servant who is plowing or feeding sheep, will he say the following thing as soon as that servant comes in from the fields: Come quickly and sit down to eat. 
8 Will he not instead say to that servant: Prepare my supper, and gird yourself, and serve me. And when I have eaten and drunk, then you will eat and drink. 
9 Should he thank that servant with more than politeness only because that servant has done his duty which was commanded to him. 
10 Similarly, when you have done everything that has been commanded to you [by the Holy Spirit of God in a certain situation], then you should say: We are unprofitable servants, we have done that which was our duty to do. 
11 And Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem, and he went from Galilee to Samaria. 
12 And he entered a certain village, and ten lepers met him there. 
13 They were standing at a certain distance from Jesus, and they lifted up their voices and said: Jesus, master, have mercy on us. 
14 And when Jesus saw them, he said to them: Go and show yourselves to the priests. [Now Jesus told them this thing so that it would be known that he was acting for the same God who gave the law to Moses.]
15 And they have been healed while they were going. Then one of them, seeing that he was healed, returned to Jesus while praising God with a loud voice. 
16 And he fell on his face at the feet of Jesus, and gave thanks. He was a Samaritan. 
17 And Jesus spoke and said: Have not the ten been healed. And where are the other nine. 
18 How is it that none of them has thought to give glory to God for the healing that he has received except this stranger. [Now Jesus is making us understand that giving glory to God for a benefit also consists of thanking the persons whom God has used to provide us with this benefit.] 
19 Then Jesus said to him: Get up and go, your faith has saved you. [That is to say, your body has been healed like the bodies of the others nine persons who have not come back to thank the one who has caused this healing, but your faith that you have shown by coming back to me has saved your soul.] 
20 And it happened that the Pharisees questioned Jesus to know at what time the kingdom of God will come. And Jesus answered them and said: The kingdom of God does not come in a way to catch the eye [that is to say, to attract attention]. 
21 They will not say, 'Lo, it is coming in this place', or 'Lo, it has come in that place'. For behold, the kingdom of God is among you.
22 And Jesus said to the disciples: The days will come when you desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and you will not see it. 
23 And they will say to you, 'Behold he is here', or 'Behold he is there'. Do not go there, do not follow them. 
24 For the Son of man will be in his day like the lightning that flashes and shines from one end of the sky to another. 
25 But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
26 And what happened in the days of Noah will also happen in the days of the Son of man. 
27 The men were eating, and drinking, and marrying, and marrying their children, until the day when Noah entered the ark. For the flood came, and destroyed them all. 
28 It will also be like what happened in the days of Lot. The men were eating, and drinking, and buying, and selling, and planting, and building. 
29 But in the day that Lot went out of Sodom, a rain of fire and sulfur fell from the sky, and destroyed them all. 
30 It will be in the same way in the day that the Son of man will appear. 
31 In that day, the one who will be on the housetop and who will have his belongings in the house must not go down to take them. Likewise, the one who will be in the fields must not go back. 
32 Remember the wife of Lot. 
33 Whoever will seek to save his life will lose it, and the one whose main concern will not be to preserve his life in his physical body will save his soul. 
34 I say to you, in that night there will be two persons on one bed but one will be taken while the other will be left. 
35 There will be two women grinding together, but one will be taken while the other will be left. 
36 There will be two men who will be in the field, but one will be taken while the other will be left. 
37 And the disciples said to Jesus, 'Where will this happen, Lord'. And Jesus said to them, 'Where a dead body is, it is also there that the eagles gather together'.
