1 After this, Jesus went from town to town and from village to village, preaching and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of God. 
2 The twelve were with him, and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. Among those women were Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out. 
3 And Joanna the wife of Chuza, Chuza being the steward of Herod, and Susanna, and many others. Those women were using their own money to help Jesus and his apostles. 
4 Now people from various cities had come to Jesus, and a large crowd had gathered, and he spoke the following parable. 
5 A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell on the side, and it was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it. 
6 And some fell on the stones, and it withered as soon as it grew because it had no moisture. 
7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it, and choked it. 
8 And some fell on the good soil, and it grew up, and it produced a hundredfold of fruit. And when Jesus had spoken these words, he cried out: Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear. 
9 Then his disciples asked him what is the meaning of this parable. 
10 And Jesus said: It has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But those things are spoken to the others in parables, so that they may look but not see, and hear but not understand. 
11 Here is the meaning of this parable: The seed is the word of God. 
12 The seed that fall on the side are for the people who hear the word, but the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts so that they may not believe and be saved. 
13 And the seed that fall on the stones are for the people who hear the word and receive it with a real joy, but they have no root. They believe for a while, but in the time of temptation they go astray. 
14 And the seed that fall among thorns are for the people who hear the word and keep it, but their concerns are superficial because they are choked by worries, and by riches and by the pleasures of life, and they bring no fruit to perfection. 
15 And the seed that fall on the good ground are for the people who hear the word with an honest and good heart, and they hold it fast, and they bring forth fruit with patience. 
16 No man, after lighting a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed. But he places it on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light. 
17 For there is nothing hidden that will not be made manifest, and there is nothing secret that will not be known and brought to light. 
18 Therefore take heed of how you listen. For to him who has, more will be given [that is to say, the fruits of the one who has the light of the knowledge of God within himself will be multiplied]. But to him who does not have [the light of the knowledge of God within himself], even what he thinks that he has will be taken away from him. 
19 Then the mother and the brothers of Jesus came to him, but they could not approach him because of the crowd. 
20 And some people said to Jesus: Your mother and your brothers are outside, and they desire to see you. 
21 And Jesus answered and said: My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and who put it into practice. 
22 On one of those days, Jesus went into a ship with his disciples. And he said to them, 'Let us go over to the other side of the lake'. And they launched the ship. 
23 And while they were sailing, Jesus fell asleep. And there came a storm of wind on the lake, and the ship was filling with water, and they were in jeopardy. 
24 Then they came to Jesus, and they awakened him by saying: Master, master, we are perishing. And Jesus awoke, and he rebuked the wind and the waves of water, and the storm ceased, and the lake became calm. 
25 Then Jesus said to them, 'Where is your faith'. And they were seized with fear and wonder, and said to one another, 'Who is this man who commands even the winds and the waters, and to whom they obey'. 
26 And they sailed to the region of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee. 
27 And when Jesus went out of the ship to the land, a man from that town came toward him. That man had demons inside him, and had not worn clothes for a long time, and lived not in a house but in tombs. 
28 And when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before Jesus, and said with a loud voice: What have I to do with you, Jesus, you the son of the Most High God. I beseech you, do not torment me. 
29 For Jesus had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of that man who had been possessed for a long time. The people had bound him in chains and had kept him in fetters, but he had broken it and had been led by the demon into the wilderness. 
30 And Jesus asked him, 'What is your name'. And he replied, 'Legion'. For many demons had entered into him. 
31 And they begged Jesus not to command them to go out and enter the abyss. 
32 Now there was a large herd of pigs feeding on the mountain. And the demons begged Jesus to allow them to enter the pigs, and Jesus gave them permission. 
33 Then the demons came out of that man, and entered the pigs. And the herd rushed down the steep slopes into the lake, and were drowned. 
34 And the herdsmen saw what had happened, and they fled, and they went and told it in the city and in the countryside. 
35 Then the people came to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus. And they found that the man from whom the demons had gone out was sitting at the feet of Jesus, and that he was clothed and in his right mind. Then they were terrified. 
36 And those who had seen what had happened told them how the man who was possessed by the demons had been healed. 
37 Then the whole multitude from the country of the Gerasenes and its surroundings begged Jesus to depart from them. For they were greatly afraid. Then Jesus entered into the ship and returned. 
38 And concerning the man from whom the demons had gone out, he begged Jesus to accept him among those who follow him wherever he goes, but Jesus sent him away by saying the following thing: Return to your house, and declare the great thing that God has done for you. 
39 And that man went his way, and proclaimed throughout the whole city the great thing that Jesus had done for him. 
40 And when Jesus returned to Galilee, a crowd welcomed him. For they were waiting for him. 
41 And behold, there came a man named Jairus who was a leader of the synagogue. And he fell down at the feet of Jesus, and begged him to come into his house.
42 For he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. 
43 And while Jesus was going there, the crowd thronged all around him. And there was in that crowd a woman who had been suffering from an issue of blood for twelve years. She had spent all her money on physicians, but no one had been able to heal her. 
44 And she came behind Jesus, and she touched the border of the garment of Jesus. And immediately her issue of blood was stanched. 
45 And Jesus said, 'Who is the person who has touched me'. And while everyone was denying it, then Peter and those with him said: Master, the multitude press you and crush you, and you say, 'Who is the one who has touched me'. 
46 But Jesus answered: Someone has touched me [having pure thoughts in the heart]. For I have perceived that a power has gone out of me. 
47 And the woman understood that what she had done had not gone unnoticed, and she came trembling, and she fell down before Jesus. And she declared in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she had been healed immediately. 
48 And Jesus said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you [and has saved you]. Go in peace. 
49 And while Jesus was still speaking, someone came from the house of the leader of the synagogue where Jesus was going, and said: Your daughter is dead, do not trouble the master anymore. 
50 But when Jesus heard this thing, he said to the leader of the synagogue: Do not be afraid. Only believe, and she will be restored. 
51 And when Jesus came into the house, he allowed no one to go in with him except Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the young girl. 
52 And all those who were at that place before the arrival of Jesus were weeping and lamenting over the girl. And Jesus said to them: Do not weep. She is not dead, but asleep. 
53 And they laughed at him, because they knew that the girl was dead.
54 But Jesus took her by the hand and said: Little girl, get up. 
55 And her spirit returned to her, and she rose up immediately. And Jesus commanded to give her something to eat. 
56 .
