1 Now all the tax collectors and sinners were approaching Jesus to hear him. 
2 And the Pharisees and scribes were grumbling by saying: This man welcomes sinners, and eats with them. 
3 Then Jesus told them the following parable. 
4 If one of you has a hundred sheep, and he loses one of them, then will he not leave the ninety nine in a safe place to go after the lost one until he finds it. 
5 And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders with joy. 
6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors and says to them: Rejoice with me. For I have found my sheep which was lost. 
7 I say to you, in the same way there will be joy in heaven for one sinner who repents, more than for ninety nine righteous persons who need no repentance. 
8 If a woman has ten pieces of silver, and she loses one piece, then will she not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and search diligently until she finds it. 
9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors and says: Rejoice with me, for I have found the piece which I had lost. 
10 I say to you, in the same way there will be joy in the presence of the angels of God concerning a single sinner who repents. 
11 And Jesus said moreover: A certaine man had two sons. 
12 And the younger one said to his father, 'Father, give me the portion of your goods that falls to me'. And the father divided his goods among his sons. 
13 And a few days later, the younger son gathered everything together and went to a distant country, and there he squandered his wealth by living in a disorderly manner. 
14 And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. 
15 Then he went and worked for one of the inhabitants of that country, and that person sent him into his fields to feed pigs. 
16 And he longed to fill his belly with the husks that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him any. 
17 Then he realized that what he was doing was not the best thing to do to improve his difficult situation which had been caused by his foolish behavior. For he said to himself: The many hired servants of my father each have enough bread to eat, and I am dying of hunger here.
18 I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him: Father, I have sinned against the heaven, and in your sight. 
19 I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Act toward me like toward one of your hired servants. 
20 So he arose and went to his father. And when he was still at a certain distance, his father saw him and was moved with compassion. And his father ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. 
21 And the son said to him: Father, I have sinned against the heaven, and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. 
22 Then the father said to his servants: Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him. And put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.
23 And bring the fattened calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. 
24 For my son who is here was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found. 
25 And they began to rejoice, while the elder son was in the field. And when the elder son was coming back and was approaching the house, he heard music and dancing.
26 And he called one of his servants, and asked him what those things meant. 
27 And the servant said to him: Your brother has come back, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he was happy that your brother was safe and sound. 
28 Then the elder son became angry and did not want to go in. Therefore his father came out, and entreated him to come in. 
29 But he answered and said to his father: Lo, these many years I have served you without ever transgressing your commands, and you never gave me a young goat to use it to rejoice with my friends. 
30 And when your son my brother came back, the one who has devoured your goods with prostitutes, you have killed the fattened calf to honor him. 
31 And his father answered him and said: My son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours. 
32 But we had to be glad and rejoice, because your brother who is here was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found.
