1 And Jesus looked up, and saw the rich people putting their gifts into the treasury. [That is to say, people were putting gifts into a box that had been set there for this purpose. Such a box had already existed from a certain time during the existence of the first temple of the Lord built by Solomon, when king Joash the grandson of queen Athaliah wanted to receive money from the people to be able to carry out repairs in the temple of the Lord.] 
2 And Jesus also saw a certain poor widow putting there two small coins. 
3 And Jesus said: Truly I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all the other persons. 
4 For all the others have put in gifts of their superfluity, while it is of her penury that she has put in all that she had to live. 
5 Now some were talking about the temple, concerning the beautiful stones with which it was adorned and the consecrated things. 
6 And Jesus said: Concerning those things that catch your attention, the days will come when there will not be left one stone on another that will not be thrown down.  
7 And they asked Jesus by saying: Teacher, when will this happen. And what will be the sign that it is about to take place. 
8 And Jesus said: Be careful not to be deceived. For many will come in my name by saying, 'I am Christ' or 'the time is near'. Do not follow them. 
9 And when you hear of wars and seditions, do not be terrified. For these things must take place first, but the end will not follow immediately. 
10 Then Jesus said to them: Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
11 There will be great earthquakes, and pestilences and famines in various places. And there will be fearful sights and great signs from the sky. 
12 But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you. They will deliver you up to the synagogues and into prisons, they will bring you before kings and rulers for the sake of my name. 
13 And it will happen to you for a testimony. 
14 So put into your hearts not to meditate in advance on how you will respond. 
15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom that all your adversaries will not be able to withstand or gainsay. 
16 And you will be betrayed by your parents, and your brothers, and your kinsmen, and your friends, and they will cause some of you to be put to death. 
17 And you will be hated by all men for the sake of my name. 
18 But not a hair of your head will perish. 
19 By your patience you will save your souls. 
20 When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near. 
21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are in Jerusalem depart from there, and let those who are in the countryside not enter the city. 
22 For those days will be days of vengeance, so that all that is written may be fulfilled. 
23 Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days. For there will be a great distress in the land, and wrath on this people. [Now this will be at the time of the destruction of this temple which has been built to bear the name of the Lord.] 
24 And they will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the nations, until the times of the nations are fulfilled. 
25 And there will be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars. And there will be distress and perplexity among the nations on the earth. The sea and the waters will roar. [Now this will be at the end of time.]  
26 And the hearts of the peoples will faint with fear because of what is coming in the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
27 And then they will see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and a great glory. 
28 When these things begin to happen, look up and lift up your heads. For your redemption is drawing near. 
29 And Jesus spoke the following parable to them: Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. 
30 when they sprout, you see it and you know for yourselves that summer is now near. 
31 In the same manner, when you see those things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near. 
32 Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things have taken place. [Now Jesus said elsewhere that the only sign that will be given to this generation is that of the prophet Jonah, and he said elsewhere that the law and the prophets have endured until John, and therefore he is saying here that until the end of time the peoples will have to content themselves with believing without evidence as was the case of the population of the city of Nineveh to whom the prophet Jonah had preached.] 
33 The sky and the earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
34 Take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be overwhelmed with carousing, or drunkenness, or anxieties of this life, and that day come on you suddenly. [That is to say, either that day of the end of time or simply the day of the end of your life in your physical body. For it is evident that some of those who are listening to these words of Jesus will die according to the flesh before all the events previously announced by Jesus are fulfilled, such as the destruction of the temple of the Lord, and the wars, and the earthquakes, and the famines. But Jesus also said previously that in the eyes of God those who are dead according to the flesh are alive in another form, like Abraham and Isaac and Jacob.] 
35 For it will come like a snare on all those who dwell on the face of the whole earth. 
36 Watch therefore, and pray continuously, so that you may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that will happen and to stand before the Son of man. [That is to say, you must continuously pray for the strength not to behave in a way that is contrary to the teachings that I have given you and and whose meaning you do not yet fully understand.] 
37 In those days Jesus was teaching in the temple every day, and he was going to spend the night on the mountain that is called the mount of Olives. 
38 And all the people were coming to the temple area early in the morning, in order to listen to Jesus.
