1 And Jesus was full of the Holy Spirit, and he returned from the Jordan, and he was led by the spirit in the wilderness. 
2 And he was tempted there by the devil during forty days. He ate nothing during those days, and he was hungry when they were completed.
3 Then the devil said to him: If you are the Son of God, then command this stone to become bread. 
4 And Jesus answered him and said: It is written, 'Man will not live by bread only, but by every word of God'. 
5 Then the devil lifted him up into a high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 
6 And the devil said to him: I will give you all this power, the glory of these kingdoms. For it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I want. 
7 Therefore everything will be yours if you worship me. 
8 And Jesus answered and said to him: Get away from me, Satan. For it is written, 'You will worship the Lord your God, and he is the only one whom you will serve'. 
9 Then the devil brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said to him: If you are the Son of God, then throw yourself down from here. 
10 For it is written: He will give orders to his angels to keep you. 
11 And they will bear you up continuously in their hands, lest you dash your foot against a stone. 
12 And Jesus answered and said to him: It is written, 'You will not tempt the Lord your God'. 
13 After the devil had tempted Jesus in all these ways, the devil departed from Jesus until an opportune time. 
14 And Jesus returned by the power of the spirit into Galilee, and his fame spread throughout all the surrounding region. 
15 For he taught in their synagogues, and everyone praised him. 
16 And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and he entered the synagogue on the sabbath day according to his custom, and he stood up to read. 
17 And they gave him the scroll of the prophet Isaiah. And he opened it, and found the place where the following thing was written. 
18 The spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to preach the good news to the powerless. He has sent me to heal those who have a broken heart, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed. 
19 To publish a year of grace from the Lord. 
20 Then he rolled up the scroll, and gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. And all those who were in the synagogue were staring at him. 
21 Then he began to say to them: Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your ears. 
22 And all were bearing him witness, and were astonished at the gracious words that came from his mouth. And they were saying: Is not this the son of Joseph. 
23 Then Jesus said to them: You will surely tell me this proverb, 'Physician, heal yourself. Do here in your country everything we have heard that you have done in Capernaum'. 
24 And he added: Truly I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. 
25 Truly I say to you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when there was a great famine throughout all the land, when the heavens were shut up for three years and six months. 
26 And nevertheless Elijah was not sent to any of them, but to a woman who was a widow in Zarephath a city of Sidon. 
27 And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and nevertheless none of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian. 
28 Then they were all filled with wrath in the synagogue when they heard these things. 
29 And they got up, and drove him out of the city, and led him to the edge of the hill on which their city was built, in order to throw him down headlong. 
30 But Jesus went through the midst of them, and went his way. 
31 And Jesus went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and there he was teaching them on the sabbath day. 
32 And they were astonished at his teaching, for he was speaking with authority. 
33 Now there was in the synagogue a man who had the unclean spirit of a demon. And that man cried out with a loud voice the following words to Jesus. 
34 Oh, what have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth. Have you come to destroy us. I know who you are, you are the holy one of God. 
35 And Jesus rebuked him by saying: Be silent and come out of him. And the demon threw that man in the midst of the assembly, and came out of him without harming him. 
36 And fear came on all of them in the assembly, and they said to one another: What is this. He commands unclean spirits with authority and power, and they come out. 
37 And his fame spread throughout all the surrounding areas. 
38 And Jesus left the synagogue, and went to the house of Simon. And the mother of the wife of Simon had a severe fever, and they begged him for health. 
39 Then Jesus stood over her, and rebuked the fever, and it left her. And she arose immediately, and served them. 
40 And at the sunset, all those who had anyone sick with various diseases brought them to Jesus. And he laid his hands on each of them, and healed them. 
41 And demons also came out of many of the people, crying out and saying, 'You are the Son of God'. But Jesus rebuked them and did not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. [Now the Jewish people are waiting for the coming of a great prophet who is announced not only by the patriarch Jacob in the blessing that he pronounced concerning his son Judah, but also by the prophets Daniel and Ezekiel among others. And Jesus does not want people to listen to the exact explanations about his identity because he knows that others will not believe for a long time that it is true, and Jesus does not want other persons to be accused of having blasphemed when the Jewish leaders will accuse him himself of having blasphemed. While he is still alive in the flesh, he only wants to convince those who can be convinced that he is a prophet who acts in the name of the God of Moses.] 
42 And when the light of day came, he left and went into a desert place. And the crowd of people sought him, and came to him, and wanted to detain him in order to prevent him from leaving them. 
43 But he said to them: I have to preach the good news of the kingdom of God to other cities also, because that is why I have been sent. 
44 And Jesus preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
