1 In those days, some people who were there told Jesus about the Galileans whose blood had been mingled with their sacrifices by Pilate. [It was while they were offering sacrifices that the men of Pilate came and killed them.] 
2 And Jesus answered and said to them: Do you think that those Galileans who have suffered in this way were greater sinners than all the other Galileans. 
3 No, I say to you. But you will all perish likewise unless you amend your lives. 
4 Or do you think that those eighteen people who have been killed when the tower fell on them in Siloam were greater sinners than all the other inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
5 No, I say to you. But you will all perish likewise unless you amend your lives.  
6 And Jesus spoke this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came to look for its fruit, but found none. 
7 Then he said to the vinedresser: Behold these three years I have been coming to look for the fruit of this fig tree, and I have found none. Now therefore, cut it down. For why should it occupy the ground unnecessarily. 
8 And the vinedresser said to him: Lord, allow it to stay this year also. I will dig around it, and dung it. 
9 Perhaps it will bear fruit after I have done this thing. If not, then it will be cut down. 
10 Now Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues on a sabbath day.
11 And behold, And there was in that place a woman who had been possessed by a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years. Her body was always bent, and she could not straighten up at all. 
12 When Jesus saw her, he called her to him and said to her: Woman, you are freed from your infirmity. 
13 And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she straightened up and praised God. 
14 And the ruler of the synagogue, being moved with indignation because Jesus had healed a sick on a sabbath day, spoke and said to the crowd: There are six days in which men ought to work. Come therefore during those days to be healed, and not on a sabbath day.
15 And the Lord [Jesus] answered him by saying: Hypocrite. Does not each of you untie his ox or his donkey on a sabbath day and lead it away to watering. 
16 And this woman who is a daughter of Abraham and whom Satan had bound, and lo, for eighteen years, should she not have been freed from her bonds as soon as possible even if it is on a sabbath day. [Now the sabbath day was given only in the law received by Moses and for two different reasons, when the ten commandments were enunciated a few months after the people left Egypt in the book of Exodus, and when these ten commandments were summarized in the fortieth and final year of their journey through the wilderness in the book of Deuteronomy. This sabbath day was not mentioned in the biblical accounts that describe the lives of the patriarchs from Adam to Jacob, nor in the events that concerned the children of Israel before their arrival in the wilderness. So the sabbath day was not known to Abraham, just as the fact of having to perform circumcision on the eighth day on each male child was not known to Abraham, since Abraham circumcised himself at the age of ninety nine and circumcised his son Ishmael at the age of thirteen. And Abraham took another wife who bore him six other male children after Isaac was born to him by his wife Sarah, and Isaac became the father of the twin brothers Esau and Jacob, Jacob being the one whose name was changed to Israel and whose twelve children according to the flesh were the fathers according to the flesh of the twelve tribes of Israel. All these remarks make us understand that the expression 'daughter of Abraham' that Jesus used is heavy with meaning.] 
17 And when Jesus spoke those words, all his adversaries were ashamed while the crowd were rejoicing for all the glorious things that he had done. 
18 Then Jesus spoke and said: What is the kingdom of God like. And to what will I liken it. 
19 It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man has taken and has sown into his garden, and which has grown and has become a great tree, and the birds of the air came to live in its branches. 
20 And Jesus spoke again and said: To what will I liken the kingdom of God. 
21 It is like leaven that a woman has taken and has put in three measures of meal, and which has had its effect until all the dough had risen. 
22 And Jesus went through towns and villages on his way to Jerusalem, and he was teaching. 
23 And someone said to him: Lord, will there be only a few people who will be saved. 
24 And Jesus said to them: Strive to enter by the narrow gate. For I say to you, many will seek to enter and will not be able. 
25 And at the time when the master of the house gets up and shuts the door, you will begin to stand outside and knock at the door by saying, 'Lord, Lord, open to us'. And he will answer and say to you, 'I do not know where you are from'. 
26 Then you will begin to say: We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. 
27 And he will say: I tell you, I do not know where you are from. Depart from me, you all the workers of iniquity. 
28 There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, while you yourselves are thrown out. 
29 And they will come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and they will sit down in the kingdom of God. 
30 And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last. 
31 On that same day, some Pharisees came to Jesus and said: Go away, do not stay here. For Herod wants to kill you. 
32 And Jesus answered them and said: Go and tell that fox, 'Behold I will cast out demons and heal the sick today and tomorrow, and I will be ready on the third day'. 
33 Nevertheless I must walk today, and tomorrow, and the next day. For it is not appropriate for a prophet to perish outside Jerusalem.
34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you. How often I have wanted to gather your children, as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you have refused. 
35 Behold your house will be left to you. And truly I say to you, you will not see me until the time comes when you say: Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.
