1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, while Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene. 
2 In the days when Annas and Caiaphas were high priests [in the temple od the Lord], the word of God came to John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. 
3 And John went throughout all the region around the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. [Now the person who was baptized was committing to no longer willingly and publicly unjustifiably cause any harm to anyone, after having acknowledged to the victims the unjustifiable offenses committed in the past. For the law of the Lord given to Moses indicates that forgiveness for a sin committed by offending someone else is obtained by interacting with the victim to acknowledge the wicked deed that has been done, and the law adds that this must be done in the presence of a priest who is by definition a descendant of Aaron, and John absolutely does not call into question the law of Moses. For what John asks the people is not to seek to do good only according to the quantities prescribed in the law, but to take personal initiatives for well being to others.] 
4 As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet: The voice of someone is shouting, Prepare the way of the Lord in the wilderness, make his paths straight.
5 Every valley will be filled, and every mountain and hill will be brought low. What is crooked will be made straight, and the rough places will be made smooth. 
6 And all flesh will see the salvation of God. 
7 So John was saying to the crowds who were coming to be baptized by him: You generation of vipers, who has taught you to flee from the wrath to come. 
8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father'. For I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones.
9 Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Therefore every tree that does not bring forth good fruit will be cut down, and thrown into the fire. 
10 And the crowds were asking him: What then should we do. 
11 And John answered and said to them: Whoever has two coats, let him give one of them to him who has none. And whoever has food, let him do likewise. 
12 And tax collectors also came there to be baptized, and they said to John: Teacher, what will we do. 
13 And John answered them: Do not require anything beyond what you have been commanded. 
14 And soldiers also asked him by saying, 'And we, what should we do'. And he said to them: Do not extort anyone, and do not accuse anyone falsely, and be content with your wages. 
15 And the people were waiting, and all were musing in their hearts about John, wondering if John was the Christ or not. 
16 And John said to them all: Indeed I baptize you with water, but there is someone who is mightier than I and who is coming. I am not worthy to untie the lace of his sandals, and he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. 
17 He has his fan in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn, and he will burn the chaff with an unquenchable fire. 
18 This is how John was preaching to the people, and he also exhorted them with many other words. 
19 But John also rebuked Herod the tetrarch for Herodias the wife of Philip who was the brother of Herod, and for all the evils that Herod had done. 
20 Therefore Herod increased the number of his wicked deeds by imprisoning John. 
21 Now when all the people were being baptized by John, Jesus also came. And while Jesus was praying there after having been baptized, the heaven was opened. 
22 And the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus in a bodily form, like a dove. And a voice from heaven said: You are my beloved son, in you I am well pleased. 
23 And Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began to teach, being the son of Joseph as men supposed, Joseph the son of Heli. 
24 The son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph. 
25 The son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai. 
26 The son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda. 
27 The son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri. 
28 The son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er. 
29 The son of Jesus, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi. 
30 The son of Simeon, the son of Judas, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim. 
31 The son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David. 
32 The son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon. 
33 The son of Amminadab, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah. 
34 The son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor. 
35 The son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah. 
36 The son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech. 
37 The son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan. 
38 The son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
