1 And they all got up and brought Jesus before Pilate. 
2 And they began to accuse Jesus by saying: We found this man who was perverting our nation, and was forbidding them to pay tribute to Caesar. He was saying that he himself is Christ, and thus a king [since our nation is waiting for a king who will be called Christ]. 
3 And Pilate questioned Jesus by saying, 'Are you the King of the Jews'. And Jesus answered him and said, 'You have said it'. 
4 Then Pilate said to the chief priests and to the crowd: I find no crime in this man. 
5 But they persisted more fiercely and said: He is stirring up the people by teaching throughout all Judea, from where he began in Galilee to this place. 
6 And when Pilate heard the word Galilee, he asked if that man was a Galilean. 
7 And when Pilate knew that Jesus was under the jurisdiction of Herod, Pilate sent him to Herod who was also at Jerusalem in those days. 
8 And Herod was exceedingly glad when he saw Jesus. For Herod had the desire to see him for a long time, because of all that he had heard about Jesus, and he was hoping to see Jesus performing a miracle. 
9 And Herod asked several questions to Jesus, but Jesus gave him no answer. 
10 And the chief priests and the scribes were there, and they were vehemently accusing Jesus. 
11 And Herod and his men treated Jesus with contempt. And they mocked Jesus, and clothed him in a dazzling robe, and sent him back to Pilate. 
12 And Pilate and Herod became friends on that same day. For there was enmity between them before this event. 
13 Then Pilate called together the chief priests, and the Jewish leaders, and the people. 
14 And Pilate said to them: You have brought this man to me and have said that he stirs up the people. And behold, I have examined him before you, and I have found him guilty of none of the things of which you accuse him. 
15 And Herod also has found no guilt in him, since Herod has sent him back to us. And behold, this man has not done a thing that is worthy of death. 
16 Therefore I will release him after having chastised him. 
17 For he used to release a prisoner who was one of theirs at each Passover feast. 
18 Then they all cried out together by saying: Kill this man, and release Barabbas to us. 
19 Now this man called Barabbas had been imprisoned for a sedition that had taken place in the city, and for murder. 
20 Then Pilate spoke to them again, desiring to release Jesus. 
21 But they shouted by saying: Crucify him, crucify him. 
22 And Pilate said to them the third time: What evil has he done. I have found nothing worthy of death in him, and therefore I will release him after having chastised him. 
23 But they insisted with loud voices, demanding that Jesus be crucified. And their voices and the voices of the chief priests prevailed. 
24 Therefore Pilate decided to grant their demand. 
25 And Pilate released the one who had been imprisoned for sedition and murder, the one whom they desired, and Pilate delivered Jesus to their will. 
26 And when they were leading him away, they seized a certain Simon of Cyrene who was coming in from the fields, and they laid the cross on him to carry it behind Jesus. 
27 And Jesus was followed by a great multitude of people, including women who were crying and lamenting over him. 
28 And Jesus turned toward them and said: Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. 
29 For behold, the days are coming when they will say: Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that have not borne children, and the breasts that never gave suck. 
30 Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us', and to the hills, 'Cover us'. 
31 For if these things are done to a green tree, then what will be done to the dry tree. 
32 And there were two other men who were malefactors and whom they were leading with Jesus to be put to death. 
33 And when they came to the place that is called Calvary, they crucified Jesus there, and the two malefactors, one on the right hand of Jesus and the other on the left. 
34 Then Jesus said: Father, forgive them. For they know not what they are doing. 
35 And some cast lots, and divided the garments of Jesus among themselves, and the people were watching. And the Jewish leaders mocked Jesus by saying: He has saved others [from their infirmities]. Let him save himself now if he is the Christ, the chosen of God. 
36 And the soldiers also mocked Jesus, and they came to him to give him vinegar. 
37 And they said to Jesus: If you are the King of the Jews, then save yourself. 
38 And there was the following inscription [placed on the cross] above Jesus, and it was written in Greek and in Latin and in Hebrew: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
39 And one of the malefactors who were crucified cried out insults to Jesus by saying: Are you not the Christ. Save yourself and save us. 
40 But the other answered and rebuked him by saying: Do you not fear God. All of us will die soon.
41 And for us this punishment is fair, since we receive the due reward of our deeds, while this man has done nothing wrong. 
42 And he said to Jesus: Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. 
43 Then Jesus said to him: Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. 
44 Now it was about the sixth hour, and there came a darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. 
45 The sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in the middle. 
46 And Jesus cried out with a loud voice and said, 'Father, I put my life in your hands'. And when he had spoken thus, he breathed his last breath. 
47 And when the centurion saw what had happened, he praised God by saying: Surely this man was righteous. 
48 And all the people who had gathered in that place saw what had happened, and they returned while smiting their chests. 
49 And all those who knew Jesus, including the women who had accompanied him from Galilee, stood at a distance and were watching these things. 
50 And behold, there was a certain man named Joseph who was a counselor. He was a good and righteous man. 
51 He had not consented to the counsel and the deed of the other Jewish leaders concerning Jesus. He was from Arimathea, a city of the Jews [inside the promised land which was possessed by the Romans in those days], and he also was waiting for the kingdom of God [like the other Jews in those days]. 
52 And he went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
53 And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen cloth, and laid it in a tomb that was hewn in a rock and where no one had ever been laid before. 
54 It was a day of the preparation, and the sabbath was about to begin. 
55 And the women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph, and they saw the sepulcher and how the body of Jesus was laid there. 
56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments. And they rested on the sabbath day, according to the commandment of the law [given by Moses who was a man of God].
