1 And it happened on a sabbath day that Jesus entered the house of one of the leaders of the Pharisees in order to have a meal, and the Pharisees were watching him. 
2 And behold, there was a hydropic man in front of Jesus. 
3 And Jesus spoke and said to the lawyers and to the Pharisees: Is it lawful to heal a sick person on a sabbath day. 
4 And they kept silent. Then Jesus stretched out his hand on that man, and healed him, and let him go. 
5 Then Jesus said to them: Which of you, if his donkey or his ox falls into a well, will not try to get it out of there immediately even on a sabbath day. 
6 And they could not answer anything. 
7 Then Jesus spoke a parable to the guests, seeing that they were looking for seats located before the others to sit there. And Jesus told them the following. 
8 When you are invited by someone to a wedding, do not choose by yourself to sit on the most remarkable seats. 
9 Lest there be among the guests a person more honorable than you, and the one who has invited both of you comes to tell you, 'Give this seat to this person'. For you would then be ashamed to go take a lower place. 
10 But when you are invited, go and sit down in the lowest place. In this way, if the one who has invited you comes and tells you, 'My friend, go up to occupy a higher seat', then you will be honored in the eyes of all those who will be in that place with you. 
11 For whoever exalts himself will be lowered, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. 
12 Then Jesus said to the one who had invited him: When you give a dinner or a supper, do not invite your friends, nor your brothers, nor your kinsmen, nor rich neighbors, lest they invite you also in order to repay you. 
13 But when you give a feast, invite the poor, and the maimed, and the lame, and the blind. 
14 And you will be blessed because they cannot repay you. For this deed will be returned to you at the resurrection of the righteous. 
15 Those who were at the table with Jesus heard those words, and one of them said to Jesus: Blessed is the one who will have a meal in the kingdom of God. 
16 And Jesus said to him: A certain man gave a great supper, and he invited many people. 
17 And he sent his servant at the supper time to say to the guests: Come now. For all things are now ready. 
18 But they all began to make excuses. The first said to him: I have bought a field, and I must go to see it. Please excuse me. 
19 And another said: I have bought five pairs of oxen, and I must go to try them. Please excuse me. 
20 And another said: I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. 
21 So the servant returned to his master, and reported those answers to him. Then the master of the house became angry, and said to his servant: Go promptly in the streets and lanes of the city, and bring here the poor, and the maimed, and the blind, and the lame. 
22 And the servant said: Lord, what you have ordered has been done, and there is still room. 
23 And the master said to the servant: Go out into the highways and hedges, and compelled those whom you will find to come inside, so that my house may be filled. 
24 For I say to you, none of those men who had been invited first will taste of my supper. 
25 Now a great crowd went with Jesus on the road, and Jesus turned and said the following thing to them. [For they were walking behind Jesus.] 
26 If a person comes to me, and does not hate his own father, and his mother, and his wife, and his children, and his brothers, and his sisters, and even his own life, then he cannot be my disciple. 
27 And whoever does not carry his own cross to follow me, the same cannot be my disciple. 
28 Which of you, if he wants to build a tower, does not sit first to calculate the cost and see if he has enough to finish the work. 
29 Lest he is unable to have the work completed after having laid the foundations, and the people make fun of him when they see the unfinished and unusable work. 
30 For they will say: This man has done a useless work since he has not been able to finish what he has started or even to progress enough in his work. 
31 What king, if he wants to make war against another king, does not sit down first to examine whether he is able to walk with ten thousand men to meet the one who comes to attack him with twenty thousand. 
32 If he cannot, then when the enemy is still at a great distance, he sends an embassy and express his desire to make peace. 
33 In the same way, whoever does not forsake everything that he has [by making his desire to follow me the only concern of his heart], the same cannot be my disciple. 
34 Salt is a good thing. But if the salt loses its flavor, then with what will it be seasoned. 
35 It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure, and it must be thrown outside. Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.
