1 In those days a decree was issued by Caesar Augustus, ordering a census throughout his whole empire. 
2 This first census took place while Quirinius was governor of Syria. 
3 So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. 
4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, to go to Judea, to the city of David which is called Bethlehem. For Joseph was of the house and lineage of David. 
5 He went there to be registered, and he went there with Mary his betrothed who was pregnant. 
6 And the time came for Mary to give birth while they were there. 
7 And she gave birth to her firstborn son. And she wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the guest house. 
8 Now there were shepherds in the same region, keeping watch over their flocks by night in the fields. 
9 And lo, an angel of the Lord stood near them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. 
10 Then the angel said to them: Do not be afraid. For behold, I bring you a good news which will be a subject of great joy for all the people. 
11 For a savior is born for you today in the city of David. He is the Christ, the Lord. 
12 And the following thing will be a sign for you. You will find the baby wrapped in swaddling clothes, and laid in a manger. 
13 And suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of other heavenly beings who were praising God with the following words. 
14 Glory to God in the highest places, and peace on the earth toward the persons with whom he is pleased. 
15 And when the angels had gone away from them to return into the heavenly places, then the shepherds said one to another: Let us go to Bethlehem now, in order to see this thing that has happened and that the Lord has made known to us. 
16 So they went with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby laid in the manger. 
17 And when they had seen it, then they proclaimed all around them what had been told them [by the angel] concerning that baby. 
18 And all those who heard it were astonished at what the shepherds said. 
19 And Mary kept all those words, and pondered them in her heart. 
20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, and which was in accordance with what had been told them [by the angel]. 
21 And the eighth day came when the baby was to be circumcised, and then his name was called Jesus in accordance with the name that the angel had given him before he was conceived in the womb. 
22 And when the days the purification of Mary were completed in accordance with the law of Moses, then Joseph and Mary brought Jesus to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. 
23 They acted thus according to what is written in the law of the Lord: Every firstborn male will be consecrated to the Lord. 
24 And also to offer there a sacrifice [for the purification of Mary] according to what is said in the law of the Lord: Two turtle doves or two young pigeons [for the woman who is too poor to offer a lamb]. 
25 And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. This man was righteous and devout, and he was waiting for the consolation of Israel [that is to say, the Christ who is announced by several authors in the scriptures and who will reign over all Israel], and the holy spirit was on him. 
26 And God had revealed to Simeon by the holy spirit that he will not see death before having seen the Christ of the Lord. 
27 And Simeon came into the temple by the will of the [holy] spirit, and he was there when the parents brought in the baby Jesus in order to act following his birth according to what was required by the law.
28 And Simeon took the baby Jesus in his arms, and blessed God, and said the following thing. 
29 Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace in accordance with your word [that you have spoken to him].
30 For my eyes have seen your salvation [in accordance with the promise that you have made to me]. 
31 The salvation that you have prepared in the sight of all peoples. 
32 A light to enlighten the Gentiles, and the glory of your people Israel. 
33 And Joseph and the mother of Jesus were marvelling at those things that were spoken of the baby Jesus. 
34 And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary the mother of Jesus: Behold this child is appointed for the falling and the rising of many in Israel, and to be a sign that will be spoken against. 
35 And a sword that will pierce through your own soul, and a message that will expose the thoughts of many hearts. 
36 Now there was a prophetess called Anna, who was the daughter of Phanuel and from the tribe of Asher. She was of a great age. 
37 She had lived with a husband for seven years from her virginity, and now she was a widow and was eighty four years old. She was staying in the temple, and was worshipping God with fastings and prayers night and day. 
38 She came at the same hour, and gave thanks to God, and spoke of Jesus to all those who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. 
39 And when they had performed all that was required by the law of the Lord, then Joseph and Mary returned into Galilee to their own city which was Nazareth. 
40 And the baby grew and became young teenager, and was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was with him. 
41 Now the parents of Jesus went to Jerusalem every year for the feast of Passover. 
42 And when Jesus was twelve years old, they went to Jerusalem for that feast as usual. 
43 And they set out to return home when the days of the feast were over, but the boy Jesus remained in Jerusalem without either Joseph or Mary noticing it. [Since the child was very independent and very wise, they did not think that he could not follow them.] 
44 They were thinking that he was with their traveling companions, and they went a day's journey. Then they looked for him among their relatives and acquaintances. 
45 And when they did not find him, then they returned to Jerusalem to look for him. 
46 And after three days, they found him in the temple. Jesus was sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. 
47 And all those who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. 
48 And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him: Son, why have you acted toward us in this way. Behold your father and I have been looking for you with sorrow in the heart. 
49 Then Jesus said to them: Why were you looking for me. Did you not know that I have to take care of the business of my father. 
50 But they did not understand the answer that Jesus gave them. 
51 Then Jesus went down with them to Nazareth, and he was subject to them. And his mother kept all these things in her heart. 
52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.
