1 Now the feast of unleavened bread which is called the Passover was approaching. 
2 And the chief priests and the scribes were looking for a legally acceptable way to kill Jesus. For they feared the people [who loved Jesus and who could prevent them from arresting him, and who could avenge his blood if they did not act with precautions]. 
3 Then Satan came into Judas. This Judas was called Iscariot, and he was one of the twelve.
4 Therefore Judas went and communed with the chief priests and the captains of the temple guard, to find out how he could deliver Jesus to them. 
5 And they were delighted with the initiative of Judas, and they agreed to give him money.
6 And Judas accepted, and he was looking for the opportunity to deliver Jesus to them by avoiding upsetting the crowd that remained near Jesus most of the time. 
7 And the day of unleavened bread came, when the [victims of the] passover were to be sacrificed. 
8 And Jesus sent Peter and John by saying: Go and prepare the passover, so that we may eat it. 
9 And they said to Jesus: Where do you want us to prepare it. 
10 And Jesus said to them: Behold when you enter the city, you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house where he goes. 
11 And you will say to the master of the house: The Master says to you, 'Where is the guest room where I will eat the passover with my disciples'. 
12 And he will show you a large upper room. It will be furnished, and you will prepare the passover there. 
13 So they went, and they found everything just as Jesus had said to them, and they prepared the passover. 
14 And when the hour had come, Jesus sat down, and the twelve apostles with him. 
15 And Jesus said to them: I have earnestly desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer. 
16 For I say to you, I will not eat of it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. [Now this does not mean that he will eat of it again from a certain point in the future, but simply that he will not eat of it again until the end of time.] 
17 And Jesus took the cup, and gave thanks, and said: Take this, and share it among yourselves. 
18 For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. [Now the kingdom of God is already in the midst of the people according to words that Jesus spoke before. But this kingdom of God must still come at two particular times, namely at the death and resurrection of Jesus and at the end of time.]
19 .
20 . 
21 And behold, the hand of the one who betrays me is with me at this table. 
22 For the Son of man indeed goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed. 
23 Then they began to wonder among themselves who was the one among them who should do such a thing. 
24 And a dispute arose among the apostles, as to which of them should be accounted the greatest. 
25 And Jesus said to them: The kings of the Gentiles have lordship over them, and everyone who is established to have authority over a certain group of people wants to be called benefactors. 
26 But it will not be so with you. Let the greatest among you be like the least. For the one who leads among you should be like one who serves. [Now Jesus has said these words to his apostles because their only goal must be to teach the exact knowledge of the will of God, and these apostles must have no other purpose among men.] 
27 For who is greater, the one who sits at the table or the one who serves. Is it not the one who sits at the table. And nevertheless I am among you as the one who serves. 
28 You are the ones who have persevered with me in my trials. 
29 Therefore I assign the kingdom to you, just as my Father assigned it to me. [That is to say, you are the ones who will make known to others what I have done and what I have said, and you will also explain to them what to remember from my message.] 
30 . 
31 And the Lord said: Simon, Simon, Satan asked to have you in order to pierce you all over. 
32 But I have prayed for you, so that your faith may not fail. And when you are converted, strengthen your brothers. 
33 And Peter said to him: Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death. 
34 And Jesus said: I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day until you have denied three times that you know me. 
35 And Jesus said to them, 'When I have sent you without purse, and bag, and shoes, did you lack anything'. And they answered, 'Nothing'.
36 Then Jesus said to them: And now, let the one who has a purse take it, and let the one who has a bag do likewise. And whoever does not have a sword, let him sell his garment and buy a sword. 
37 For I say to you, the following thing that is written must be fulfilled in me, 'He was numbered among the transgressors'. For what is happening to me has a purpose. 
38 And they said, 'Lord, behold there are two swords here'. And Jesus said to them, 'That will be enough'. 
39 And Jesus came out, and he went to the mount of Olives according to his custom. And his disciples also followed him. 
40 And when he arrived at the place, he said to them: Pray, so as not to succumb to temptation. 
41 And Jesus withdrew from them, and he went to a distance that was about a stone’s throw, and he knelt down and prayed. 
42 And he said: Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, let not my will be done but yours. 
43 .
44 . 
45 And when Jesus rose up from his prayer, he came to the disciples and found them asleep from sorrow. 
46 And Jesus said to them: Why are you sleeping. Get up and pray, so as not to succumb to temptation. 
47 And while Jesus was still speaking, behold a company came. Judas who was one of the twelve was walking ahead of them, and he approached Jesus to kiss him. 
48 And Jesus said to him: Judas, are you betraying the Son of man with a kiss of friendship. 
49 When the disciples who were with Jesus saw what was going to happen, they said: Lord, should we smite with the sword. 
50 And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. 
51 Then Jesus answered and said to his disciples, 'Do not do more'. And Jesus touched the ear of that man, and healed him. 
52 Then Jesus said the following thing to those who had come against him, namely the chief priests, and the captains of the temple guard, and the elders: You have come out as if against a thief, with swords and sticks. 
53 I was with you every day in the temple, and you have not stretched forth your hands against me. But now it is your hour, and the power of darkness. 
54 And they seized Jesus, and led him away, and brought him to the house of the high priest. And Peter followed them while staying at a certain distance. 
55 And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and had sat down, Peter also sat among them. 
56 A a certain maid saw Peter who had sat near the fire, and she looked intently at him, and she said: This man was also with him [that is to say, he was also with Jesus]. 
57 But Peter denied it by saying: Woman, I do not know him. 
58 A little while later, another saw Peter and said, 'You also are one of them'. But Peter said: Man, I am not one of them. 
59 And about an hour later, another confidently affirmed by saying: Certainly this man was also with him [that is to say, he was also with Jesus]. For he is also a Galilean. 
60 And Peter said, 'Man, I do not know what you are talking about'. And immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. 
61 And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord who had said to him: Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times. 
62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
63 The men who guarded Jesus mocked him and beat him. 
64 And they covered his face, and smote him, and questioned him by saying: Prophesy and tell us who is the one who has smitten you. 
65 And they used many other insults against him. 
66 And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people gathered together, with the chief priests and the scribes, and Jesus was led before their assembly. 
67 And they said to Jesus, 'If you are the Christ, tell us'. And Jesus said to them, 'If I tell you, then you will not believe it'. 
68 And if I ask you questions, then you will neither answer nor let me go. 
69 From now on the Son of man will sit at the right hand of the power of God. 
70 Then they all said, 'Are you then the Son of God'. And Jesus said to them, 'You say it, I am he'. 
71 Then they said: What other testimony do we need. We ourselves have heard it from his own mouth.
