1 Now Jesus was near the lake of Gennesaret, and the people crowded around him to hear the word of God. 
2 And Jesus saw two boats on the shore. The fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets. 
3 And Jesus got into one of the boats, which belonged to Simon, and asked him to push the boat a little so that it would float close to the shore. Then Jesus sat down, and taught the crowd from the boat. 
4 And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon: Move the boat towards the deep waters, and let down your nets for a catch. 
5 And Simon answered and said to him: Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless I will let down the net because of your word. 
6 And when they had done so, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net was breaking. 
7 And they beckoned to their companions who were in the other boat, to come and help them. And their companions came, and filled both boats so full that they began to sink. 
8 Now when Simon Peter saw this thing, he fell down at the knees of Jesus and said: O Lord, depart from me. For I am a sinful man. 
9 For Simon and all those who were with him were terrified, because of the great numbers of the fishes that they had taken. 
10 So were James and John, the sons of Zebedee who were with Simon. Then Jesus said to Simon: Do not be afraid. From now on you will be a fisher of men. 
11 And when they had brought the boats to land, they left everything and followed Jesus. 
12 Now Jesus was in one of the cities, and behold, there was a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged Jesus by saying: Lord, you can make me clean if you want it. 
13 And Jesus stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said, 'I want it, be clean'. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. 
14 And Jesus commanded him to tell it to no one, and said: But go and show yourself to the priests, and offer for your cleansing the things that Moses has commanded [in the law], and it will serve as a testimony to those priests [to let them know that you have been healed by the God who gave that law which they have received through Moses]. 
15 But the fame of Jesus spread more and more, and great multitudes came together to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities by him.
16 And Jesus [often] withdrew himself into the wilderness, in order to pray. 
17 Now it happened one day that Jesus was teaching the people, and Pharisees and doctors of the law were sitting there. They had come from every village of Galilee and of Judea, and from Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was on Jesus to heal the sick. 
18 And behold, some people were carrying a paralytic on a bed. They were trying to bring him in, in order to lay him before Jesus. 
19 And when they could not find a way to bring him inside because of the crowd, then they went up to the roof and let him down through an opening, him and his bed, in order to put him into the midst of the assembly who were before Jesus. 
20 And Jesus saw their faith [since they were acting thus], and he said: Man, your sins are forgiven. 
21 Then the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason and they say: Who is this who speaks blasphemies. Who can forgive sins except God alone. 
22 And Jesus, perceiving their reasonings, answered them and said: Why do you have this thought in your hearts. [That is to say: Why are you assuming that I should not have the power to forgive the sins of a person, and even of a person whom I have never met before. Why are you assuming that I am not in the bosom of God and that I do not know his secrets.] 
23 What is easier to say: 'Your sins are forgiven' or 'Get up and walk'.
24 And now, in order to let you all know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins, I say now the following thing to this person who is paralytic: Get up, and take up your bed, and go to your house. 
25 And immediately the paralytic man got up before them, and took the bed on which he had been laid, and went to his house while praising God.
26 And they were all amazed, and they praised God. And they were filled with fear, and they were saying: We have seen strange things today. 
27 And after these things Jesus went forth, and he saw a tax collector whose name was Levi and who was sitting at the tax booth. And Jesus said to him: Follow me. 
28 And Levi forsook everything, and got up, and followed Jesus. 
29 Then Levi made a great feast in his own house for Jesus, and there were a great company of tax collectors and of others who were sitting with them at the feast. 
30 And the Pharisees [who are people who claim to distinguish themselves by a strict observance of the law] and their teachers of the law murmured against the followers of Jesus and said: Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners. 
31 And Jesus answered and said to them: Those who are in health have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. 
32 I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. 
33 Then they said to Jesus: The disciples of John often make fasting, and make prayers, and the disciples of the Pharisees act likewise, but your disciples eat and drink every day. 
34 And Jesus said to them: Should you cause the wedding guests to be sad and to make fasting while the bridegroom is still with them. 
35 The days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will make fasting in those days. 
36 And Jesus told them this parable: No one tears a piece from a new garment to put it on an old garment. For he will have damaged the new garment, and the piece that he will have taken from it will not be suitable for the old garment. 
37 And no one puts a new wine into an old wineskins, lest the new wine burst the skins and be spilled, and the skins be ruined. [That is to say, such a thing is not done for fear that the taste of the new wine will be ruined by the smell of the old wineskins.] 
38 Therefore a new wine must be put into new wineskins. 
39 And a person who is used to drinking an old wine will not desire a new wine. For he says: The old is better.
