1 In view of the fact that many have undertaken to write a narrative of those things of which we are completely convinced that they have occurred among us.
2 According to what has been transmitted to us by those who were eyewitnesses from the beginning and who became ministers of the word. 
3 It has seemed good to me also, having thoroughly searched out all these things from the events of their beginning, to present them to you in writing and in an orderly manner, very excellent Theophilus. 
4 So that you may know the certainty of those things which have been taught to you. 
5 In the days of Herod king of Judea, there was a priest named Zacharias who was of the division of Abia. And his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. 
6 Both of them were righteous before God, keeping all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blamelessly. 
7 And they had no child because Elisabeth was barren, and they were both now advanced in age. 
8 Now he was performing his duty as a priest before God according to the order of his division. 
9 And the custom of the priests in those days was to distribute tasks by choosing by lot the one who should perform a certain task, and Zacharias was chosen at that time to burn incense into the temple of the Lord. 
10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the time of incense. 
11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zacharias and was standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 
12 And when Zacharias saw him, then Zacharias was troubled and seized with fear. 
13 And the angel said to him: Do not be afraid, Zacharias. For your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elisabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John. 
14 He will be a source of joy and gladness for you, and many will rejoice at his birth. 
15 For he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He will drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he will be filled with the holy spirit even from his mother's womb. 
16 And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. 
17 He will walk before God in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, to cause the disobedient to walk in the wisdom of the righteous, to prepare for the Lord a people well disposed.
18 Then Zacharias said to the angel: How will I know this. For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. 
19 And the angel answered and said to him: I am Gabriel, and I stand in the presence of God. I have been sent to speak to you, and to bring you this good news. 
20 And behold, you will be mute and unable to speak until the day that these things will happen, because you have not believed my words which will be fulfilled in their time. 
21 Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zacharias outside and were surprised that he was staying so long in the temple. 
22 And Zacharias could not speak to them when he came out, and they understood that he had seen a vision in the temple. He was making signs to them, but he was mute. 
23 And Zacharias departed to his own house when the days of his service were completed. 
24 And after some time, his wife Elisabeth became pregnant. 
25 And she hid herself for five months by saying: The Lord has done this thing for me in order to take away my reproach among men, because he has seen my affliction in the days when he looked at me. 
26 And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee called Nazareth. 
27 He was sent to a virgin whose name was Mary, and who was engaged to a man named Joseph from the house of David. 
28 And the angel came to her and said: Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you, and you are blessed among women. 
29 And Mary saw him, and was troubled by these words, and wondered what kind of greeting that could mean. 
30 And the angel said to her: Do not be afraid, Mary. For you have found favor with God. 
31 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus. 
32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. 
33 He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. 
34 Then Mary said to the angel: How will this be, since I have no intimate relations with a man. 
35 And the angel answered and said to Mary: The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will cover you. Therefore also the holy thing to which you will give birth will be called the Son of God. 
36 And lo, your relative Elisabeth has also conceived a son despite her advanced age. She who was called barren is now in her sixth month. 
37 For nothing will be impossible with God. 
38 Then Mary said: Behold I am the handmaid of the Lord, 'Let it be done to me according to your word'. And the angel departed from her. 
39 And Mary arose in those days, and went with haste into the hill country, to a city of Judah. 
40 And she entered the house of Zacharias, and greeted Elisabeth. 
41 And as soon as Elisabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in the womb of Elisabeth and she was filled with the holy spirit. 
42 And she cried out with a loud voice and said: You are blessed among all women, because the fruit of your womb is blessed. 
43 How is it given to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me.
44 For lo, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. 
45 Blessed is she who has believed. For the things that have been spoken to her from the Lord will be accomplished. 
46 And Mary said: My soul highly praises the Lord. 
47 And my spirit rejoices in God my savior. 
48 For he has looked on the lowliness of his handmaid. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. 
49 For the Almighty has done great things for me. Holy is his name. 
50 And his mercy is from generation to generation on each of those who fear him.
51 He has shown strength with his arm, and he has scattered those who are proud in the imagination of their hearts. 
52 He has brought down the mighty from their thrones, and has lifted up the lowly. 
53 He has filled the hungry with good things, and has sent the rich away empty. 
54 He has upheld his servant Israel, in order to remember his covenant.
55 In accordance with what he had spoken to our fathers, concerning Abraham and his [spiritual] children forever. 
56 Now Mary stayed with Elisabeth for about three months, and then she returned to her own house. 
57 And the time came for Elisabeth to give birth, and she gave birth to a son. 
58 And her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had shown mercy toward her, and they rejoiced with her. 
59 And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called him Zacharias according to the name of his father. 
60 But his mother answered and said: Not so, for he will be called John. 
61 And they said to her: There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. 
62 And they made signs to his father, to know what is the name that he wanted to give to the baby. 
63 And Zacharias asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, 'His name is John'. And everyone was amazed. 
64 And Zacharias opened his mouth immediately, and his tongue was loosed, and he spoke and praised God. 
65 Then fear came on all those who lived around that place, and they talked about all these things throughout all the hill country of Judea. 
66 And all those who heard these things kept them in their hearts by saying: What kind of child will this child be. For the hand of the Lord is surely with him. 
67 And his father Zacharias was filled with the holy spirit, and he prophesied with the following words. 
68 Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. 
69 He has raised up the horn of salvation in the house of his servant David, for all his people. 
70 In accordance with what he had said through the mouths of his holy prophets since ancient times. 
71 He has given us a savior who will deliver us from our enemies, from the hand of all those who hate us. 
72 Thus he remembers his holy covenant and he fulfills the mercy promised to our fathers. 
73 According to the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. 
74 To whom he promised that he will allow us to serve him without fear, after we will have been delivered out of the hand of those who want to hurt us. 
75 To serve him by walking before him in righteousness and in holiness during all the days of our lives. 
76 And you, baby, you will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. 
77 In order to give his people the knowledge of salvation, a knowledge that will come from the forgiveness of their sins. 
78 Because of the entrails of the mercies of our God, by which the rising sun has visited us from on high. 
79 To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. 
80 And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day when he presented himself to Israel.
