1 After having finished to say all these things to the people, Jesus went into Capernaum. 
2 And in that place there was an officer of the Roman army whose servant was sick and about to die, and that servant was loved by his master the officer of the army. 
3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent some elders of the Jews to beseech Jesus to come and heal his servant. 
4 So they came to Jesus, and they implored him by saying: This Roman officer deserves that you do this thing for him. 
5 For he loves our nation, and he has built the synagogue for us [that is to say, he has financed the construction]. 
6 Then Jesus went with them. And when Jesus was still a little away from the house, while he was getting closer, the Roman officer sent his friends to Jesus to tell him the following thing: Lord, do not give yourself so much trouble. For I am not worthy that you enter under my roof. 
7 It is also for this reason that I have sent some elders of the Jews to you to make this request, because I did not feel worthy to come closer to you. Therefore now, say a word and my servant will be healed. 
8 For I am subjected to superiors, but I have soldiers under my orders. And I say to one, 'Go', and he goes, and to another, 'Come', and he comes, and to my servant, 'Do this', and he does it. [That is to say, I do not want my mind to have the feeling of having acted in this way toward you, because I think that you must be the Lord who has been announced by the creator of all things, the Christ of the God of the Jews.] 
9 When Jesus heard these words, he felt admiration for that Roman officer. And Jesus turned toward the crowd that was following him, and said: I tell you that I have not found such a great faith, not even in Israel [and not even among you who are walking behind me]. 
10 And when those who had been sent to Jesus by the Roman officer returned to the house, they found that the sick servant was healed. 
11 And Jesus went to a city called Nain on the next day. And many of his disciples went with him, and also a great multitude. 
12 Now when he was near the gate of the city, behold there were people who were carrying a dead man to bury him. This dead man was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and there were many inhabitants of the city who were walking around her to comfort her. 
13 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and he said to her: Weep not. 
14 And Jesus came near, and touched the bier, and those who were carrying it stopped. And Jesus said: Young man, I say to you, Get up. 
15 And the man who was dead get up and sat down, and began to speak. And Jesus gave him to his mother. 
16 Then fear came on all the people who were there, and they glorified God by saying: A great prophet has been sent among us, God has visited his people. 
17 And this report concerning Jesus went forth throughout all Judea, and throughout all the regions around. 
18 And the disciples of John told him of all these things. 
19 And John called two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus to tell him: Are you the one who was supposed to come, or should we wait for another. [Now John knows that Jesus is the one who will baptize the people with the Holy Spirit, but John is wondering if these few isolated miracles that Jesus performs will also make him the one who will liberate all Israel whose territory is now inside the Roman Empire after having been inside the Greek Empire and after having been inside the Persian Empire.] 
20 And when those men came to Jesus, they said: John the Baptist has sent us to you by saying, 'Are you the one who was supposed to come, or should we wait for another'. 
21 And at that same hour Jesus healed many persons of their diseases, and of their infirmities, and of evil spirits, and Jesus restored the sight of many who were blind. 
22 Then Jesus answered and said to them: Go and tell John the things that you have seen and heard. The blind see, and the lame walk, and the lepers are purified, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and a good news is announced to the powerless.
23 Blessed be the one who will not think to have made a bad choice when he puts his trust in me. 
24 And when the messengers of John had gone, then Jesus began to say to the crowd concerning John: What have you gone to see into the wilderness. Was it a reed swaying in the wind. 
25 But what have you gone to see. Was it a man dressed in precious clothes. Behold those who wear magnificent clothes, and live delicately, are in the courtyards of the king. 
26 But what have you gone to see. Was it a prophet. Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet. 
27 This is he of whom it is written: Behold I send my messenger before your face, he will prepare your way before you. 
28 I say to you, among those born of women there is no one greater than John. And nevertheless the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. 
29 And all the people who have heard him, among whom were tax collectors, have been justified by God by letting themselves be baptized with the baptism of John. [That is to say, they have been justified because they have been convinced of the good quality of the message of John.] 
30 But the Pharisees [who are those who strive to live according to the law] and the teachers of the law, by refusing to be baptized by him [because they did not recognize the good quality of his message], have made the counsel of God of none effect in their own eyes. 
31 And the Lord [Jesus] said: To what will I liken the men of this generation. What do they look like. 
32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace, and talking to one another by saying: We have played the flute for you, but you have not danced. We have howled for you, but you have not wept. 
33 For John the Baptist have come, and he neither eats bread nor drinks wine, and you say: He has a demon. 
34 And the Son of man have come, and he eats and drinks, and you say: Behold a glutton and a great wine-drinker, and a friend of tax collectors and of sinners. 
35 But wisdom will be justified by all her children. 
36 And one of the Pharisees asked Jesus to eat with him. And Jesus went into the house of the Pharisee, and sat down to at the table. 
37 And behold, there was a sinful woman in the city. And when she knew that Jesus was sitting [or was going to sit] at table in the house of the Pharisee, then she brought an alabaster box of ointment. [Now she has brought this object with good intention in her heart, according to the knowledge that she possessed at that time. And it appears that some women used to honor worthy men in this way in those days. For later, during his last journey to Jerusalem in the account of the gospel of John, another woman who is not a great sinner will behave similarly toward Jesus. But that woman will not be weeping, because she will not suspect that Jesus will soon suffer, whereas this woman will weep because of her sins and the faith that she has in the fact that Jesus is a great prophet of the Jewish people.] 
38 And she stood behind Jesus at his feet, and she was weeping. And she began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them with the hairs of her head, and she kissed his feet, and she anointed them with the ointment. 
39 And the Pharisee who had invited Jesus was seeing this, and he thought in himself: If this man were a prophet, then he would have known who is this woman who is touching him and of what kind she is. For she is a sinner. 
40 And Jesus spoke and said to that Pharisee, 'Simon, I have something to say to you'. And Simon the Pharisee replied, 'Teacher, speak'. 
41 And Jesus said: There was a certain creditor who had two debtors. The one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. And because they had nothing to pay, he forgave them both. 
42 In your opinion, which of those two culprits will love the creditor the most. 
43 And Simon answered and said, 'I suppose that it is the one to whom he has forgiven the most'. And Jesus said to him, 'You have judged correctly'. 
44 Then Jesus turned toward the woman and said to Simon: Do you see this woman. I have entered your house, and you have not given me water to wash my feet. But she has wetted my feet with her tears, and has wiped them with the hairs of her head. 
45 You have not given me a kiss. But since the time that I came in, she has not ceased to kiss my feet. 
46 You have not anointed my head with oil. But she has anointed my feet with ointment. 
47 Therefore I say the following thing to you. Her many sins are forgiven, because she has loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. 
48 And Jesus said to the woman: Your sins are forgiven. 
49 And those who were at the table with him began to say within themselves: Who is this man who [not only performs miracles but] even forgives sins. 
50 And Jesus said to the woman: Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.
