1 And they came to the sepulcher on the first day of the week, early in the morning, and they had with them the spices that they had prepared.
2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher. 
3 And when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
4 And while they were puzzled concerning this thing, behold two men in dazzling garments were standing near them. 
5 And the women were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground. And the angels said to them: Why do you seek among the dead the one who is alive. 
6 He is not here, for he has risen. Remember what he had spoken to you when he was still in Galilee. 
7 When he said: The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and he will arise again on the third day. 
8 And the women remembered the words of Jesus. 
9 And they returned from the sepulcher, and told all these things to the eleven apostles and to all the other followers. 
10 And the women who told these things to the apostles were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and the other women who were with them. 
11 But they considered that these words of the women had a frivolous purpose, and did not believe them. 
12 However Peter arose and ran to the sepulcher, and looked in, and saw nothing except the linen cloths laid there. Then he departed, wondering what had happened. 
13 And behold, on that same day two followers were going to a village called Emmaus which was about seven miles from Jerusalem. 
14 And they were talking about all these things which had happened. 
15 And while they communed and questioned together, Jesus himself came near and walked with them. 
16 But their eyes were prevented from recognizing Jesus. 
17 What is the subject of this discussion that you are having and which makes you sad while you walk. 
18 And one of them, named Cleopas, answered Jesus and said: Are you the only one who have been in Jerusalem and who does not know what has happened there in these days. 
19 And Jesus said to them, 'What has happened'. And they said to him: It is about Jesus of Nazareth who was a powerful prophet in deeds and words before God and all the people. 
20 And the chief priests and our rulers have delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. 
21 We had hoped that he was the one who should redeem Israel. But all this happened, and today is the third day since these things have happened. 
22 Moreover certain of the women who were his followers like us have amazed us, after they have gone early in the morning to his sepulcher. 
23 For they have come back and said that they have not found his body, and that angels have appeared to them and have said to them that he is alive. 
24 And some of those who were with us went to the sepulcher and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him. 
25 Then Jesus said to them: O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. 
26 Should not Christ suffer these things, and enter into his glory. 
27 Then he began to explain to them the things that had been written about himself in all the scriptures, beginning with Moses and continuing with the other prophets. 
28 And when they were near the village where they were going, he seemed to want to go further. 
29 But they urged him by saying: Stay with us, for the day is already advanced, and the evening approaches. And he went in to stay with them. 
30 And while he was at table with them, he took bread and gave thanks. Then he broke it and gave it to them. 
31 Then their eyes were opened [in relation to the fact that something was preventing them from recognizing him], and they recognized him, but he vanished from their sight. 
32 And they said one to another: Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the road and while he explained the scriptures to us. 
33 And they rose up that very hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven apostles gathered together with the other followers who were with them. 
34 The apostles and the other followers were saying: The Lord is risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. 
35 And the two who had just arrived told what had happened to them on the road, and how they had recognized Jesus when he broke the bread. 
36 And while they were speaking these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them: Peace be with you. 
37 And they were bewildered and afraid, and thought they were seeing a spirit. 
38 Then Jesus said to them: Why are you troubled. Why do these thoughts arise in your hearts. 
39 Look at my hands and my feet, it is I myself. Touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. 
40 And when Jesus had spoken thus, he showed them his hands and his feet.
41 And while they were still having trouble believing that this was really happening, and were overwhelmed by the astonishment and joy, Jesus said to them: Do you have anything here to eat. 
42 And they brought him a roasted fish and a honeycomb. 
43 And he took it, and ate it before them. 
44 Then he said to them: This is what I told you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms, must be fulfilled. 
45 Then he opened their minds so that they might understand the scriptures. 
46 And he said to them: Thus it is written that the Christ will suffer, and arise from the dead on the third day. 
47 And that repentance and remission of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 
48 You are witnesses of these things. 
49 And behold, I will send the promise of my Father on you. But you must remain in the city until you are endued with the power from on high. 
50 Afterward Jesus led them to Bethany, and lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 
51 And while he was blessing them, he departed from them and was carried up into the heaven. 
52 And they worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. 
53 And they were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God.
