1 One of those days, while Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests came to him, and also the scribes and the elders. 
2 And they said to Jesus: Tell us by what authority you are doing these things, or who has given you this authority. 
3 And Jesus answered and said to them: I will also ask you one question. Tell me the following thing. 
4 The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men. 
5 And they reasoned with each other by saying: If we answer, 'From heaven', then he will say, 'Why did you not believe him'. 
6 But if we say, 'From men', then all the people will stone us because they are convinced that John was a prophet. 
7 Therefore they [came to him and] answered that they did not know from whom it was. 
8 And Jesus said to them: I also, I will not tell you by what authority I do these things. 
9 Then Jesus began to speak the following parable to the people this parable: A certain man planted a vineyard, and leased it to tenants, and went to a far country to stay there for a long time. 
10 And at harvest time, he sent a servant to the tenants, so that they might give him some of the produce of the vineyard. But the tenants beat that servant, and sent him away empty-handed. 
11 And he sent another servant. And they beat that servant also, and insulted him, and sent him away empty-handed. 
12 And he sent a third servant. And they wounded him, and cast him out.
13 Then the lord of the vineyard said: What will I do. I will send my beloved son. They may revere him when they see him. 
14 But when the tenants saw him, they reasoned one with another by saying: This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours. 
15 So they threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. Now what will the lord of the vineyard do to them. 
16 He will come and destroy those tenants, and give the vineyard to others.  
17 And when they heard those words of Jesus, they said, 'God forbid'. And Jesus looked at them and said: What then is this that is written, 'The stone that the builders have rejected has been made the head of the corner'. 
18 Whoever falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, and it will crush to pieces whoever it falls on. 
19 And the chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him in that very hour, because they had perceived that Jesus had spoken this parable against them. But they feared the crowd. 
20 And they watched Jesus and sent forth spies who pretended to be righteous, in order to lay traps before Jesus and catch some of his words, and thus be able to deliver him to the power and authority of the governor. 
21 And the spies spoke to Jesus and said: Teacher, we know that you speak and teach justly. You do not let yourself be influenced by the appearance of people, but you teach the way of God truthfully. 
22 Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar or not. 
23 And Jesus perceived their craftiness, and said to them: Show me a denarius. To whom belongs the image and the inscription that are engraved on it. 
24 And they answered and said: Caesar. 
25 Then Jesus said to them: Give back to Caesar the things that are from Caesar, and to God the things that are from God. 
26 And they were astonished at his answer, and they remained silent. For they could not reproached Jesus for that answer which he had spoken before the people. 
27 And some of the Sadducees came to Jesus to ask him a question. In those days the Sadducees are a part of those who affirm, among other things, that there will be no resurrection of the dead at the end of time. So they spoke and said the following thing. 
28 Teacher, Moses commanded us that if a man dies while he has a wife and has no children, and if he has a brother who is alive, then that brother should take the widow and have children with her to preserve the name of his dead brother. 
29 Now there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and he died childless. 
30 And the second took the widow, and he died childless. 
31 And the third took her, and it happened in the same way until the seventh who took her and died childless. 
32 And the woman also died afterward. 
33 And now, who among those brothers will take her for his wife in the resurrection. For each of the seven had her for wife. 
34 And Jesus answered and said to them: The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage. 
35 But those who are found worthy to enjoy that world, and the resurrection from the dead, will neither marry nor be given in marriage. 
36 For they can no longer die. For they are equal to the angels, and are sons of God, being children of the resurrection. 
37 The fact that the dead are raised is revealed even by Moses in his vision at the bush, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. 
38 For he is not the God of the dead, but of those who are alive. For all are alive in his sight. 
39 Then some of the scribes spoke and said: Teacher, you have spoken well. 
40 And after that, they no longer dared to ask him any question. 
41 And Jesus said to them: How can people say that Christ is the son of David. 
42 David himself says the following thing in the book of Psalms. 
43 The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool. 
44 Since David calls him Lord, how then is he his son. 
45 Then Jesus said the following thing to his disciples, in the audience of all the people. 
46 Beware of the scribes, who love to wear long robes in the sight of the people and to be greeted in the marketplaces, who seek the best positioned seats in the synagogues and the first places at feasts. 
47 Those who devour the houses of the widows and make long prayers. They will be condemned more strictly.
