1 One day Jesus was praying in a certain place, and he ceased after a certain time. Then one of his disciples said to him: Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples to do it. 
2 And Jesus said to them: Say the following thing when you pray. Father, may your name be sanctified [by all the peoples]. May your reign come, for your will is done on earth as it is in heaven. 
3 Give us our daily bread every day. 
4 And forgive us our sins, as we too forgive every one who has offended us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. 
5 And Jesus said to them: If one of you has a friend, and goes to him in the middle of the night to tell him the following thing. 
6 Friend, I want you to lend me three loaves. For one of my friends has come to my house from a trip, and I have nothing to offer him to eat. 
7 And if the one to whom this thing is asked desire to answer by saying: Do not trouble me, the door is already closed. My children and I are in bed, and I cannot get up to give you breads. 
8 Then I say to you, despite the fact that he does not want to get up and give what is asked of him, he will do it anyway because it is his friend who is bothering him. Therefore he will give what he has the possibility to give him. 
9 And I say to you the following thing. Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. 
10 For every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and it is opened to the one who knocks. 
11 Who is the father who will give a stone to his son when that son has asked his father for bread. And who is the one who will give a snake to his son who is asking for a fish. 
12 Will he give a scorpion if he is asked for an egg. 
13 If then, being wicked as you are, you know how to give good things to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him for it. 
14 Now it happened that Jesus was casting a demon who had made a man unable to speak. And when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke and the crowd marvelled. 
15 But some of them said: He casts out demons from people by the power of Beelzebub who is the chief of the demons. 
16 And others wanted to trap Jesus, and they asked him for a sign from heaven. [For they thought that since he must be performing miracles by using the power of Satan, he can only act on evil spirits and he cannot perform another kind of miracle.]
17 But Jesus knew their thoughts, and he said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself will be destroyed, and a family whose members fight against each other will break apart. 
18 So if Satan is divided against himself, then how will his kingdom stand. For you say that I cast out demons by the power of Beelzebub.
19 And if I cast out demons by the power of Beelzebub, then by whom do your sons cast them out. Therefore they will be your judges. [Now when Jesus mentions their sons here, he is speaking of the seventy disciples whom he recently sent to perform miracles in his name, and also of all those who will become his disciples later and who will perform miracles in his name after the death of his body.] 
20 But if it is by the finger of God that I am able to cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come to you. 
21 When a strong and well armed man keeps his house, what he owns is safe. 
22 But if another man who is stronger than he come against him, then this stronger man will prevail over the first, and will take all his weapons in which he trusted, and will distribute his spoils. 
23 The one who is not with me is against me, and the one who does not gather with me scatters. 
24 When an unclean spirit has come out of a man, that spirit goes through arid places to seek rest. And if he does not find a place a rest, then he says: I will go back to my house from which I have come out.
25 And when he has come, if he finds it swept and garnished, then he goes and takes seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they come inside and dwell there. 
26 And the last condition of that man is worse than the first. 
27 And while Jesus was speaking those things, a certain woman of the crowd lifted up her voice and said to him: Blessed is the womb that has borne you, and the nipples that you have sucked. 
28 And Jesus answered ans said: Blessed be rather those who hear the word of God, and who keep it [in order to practice it]. 
29 The crowd grew larger and larger, and Jesus began to say: This is a wicked generation. They seeks a sign [despite everything that they have seen me do and everything that they have heard that I have done], but no sign will be given them except the sign of Jonah the prophet. 
30 For just as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so the Son of man will be to this generation. 
31 The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with the people of this generation and will condemn them. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, what is here is greater than Solomon. 
32 The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, what is here is greater than Jonah. 
33 No man lights a lamp in order to put it in a secret place or under a bushel basket, but on a lampstand so that those who enter may see the light. 
34 Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is in good condition, your whole body is illuminated. But when your eye is in bad condition, your body is in darkness. 
35 Beware therefore that the light that is in your heart be not darkness. 
36 If therefore your whole body is full of a good light from your heart, having no part in darkness, then you will walk in the light like when the bright light of a lamp illuminates everything where you are. 
37 And while Jesus was speaking, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. And Jesus went in, and sat down at table. 
38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he was surprised that Jesus had not first washed his hands before the meal. 
39 And the Lord said to him: You the Pharisees, you clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but you are full of extortion and wickedness inside your hearts. 
40 You are foolish. Did not the one who made the outside also make the inside. 
41 Give alms of those things that are inside the heart [instead of seeking approval in the eyes of others through appearances], and behold, all things will be clean for you. 
42 Woe to you, Pharisees. For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, but you neglect the justice and the love of God. Those are the things that you should have done first, without omitting the others. 
43 Woe to you, Pharisees. For you love the best seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the marketplaces. 
44 Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you are like tombs that do not appear to be what they are, and on which people walk without being aware of it. 
45 Then one of the lawyers spoke and said to Jesus: Teacher, you insult us also by saying these thing. 
46 And Jesus answered and said: Woe to you also, lawyers. For you load men with burdens that are grievous to bear, and you yourselves do not touch them with one of your fingers. 
47 Woe to you. For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers have killed. 
48 You thus bear witness to the works of your fathers and approve them. For they have killed the prophets, and you build their tombs. 
49 Therefore the wisdom of God said: I will send them prophets and apostles, and they will kill some and persecute others. 
50 So that the blood of all the prophets which was shed since the creation of the world may be required of this generation. 
51 From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah who was killed between the altar and the temple. Truly I say to you, it will be required of this generation. 
52 Woe to you, lawyers. For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You have not entered yourselves, and you have hindered those who were entering. 
53 And as Jesus said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, to make him speak many things. 
54 And they were setting traps for him, trying to catch something from his mouth in order to be able to accuse him.
