1 And Jesus entered Jericho, and he was passing through the town. 
2 And behold, there was a rich man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief of the tax collectors. 
3 And Zacchaeus was trying to see who Jesus was, but he could not because of the crowd. For Zacchaeus had a small stature. 
4 Therefore Zacchaeus ran ahead and climbed a sycamore tree, in order to see Jesus. For Jesus was about to pass on that way. 
5 And when Jesus came to that place, he looked up and said to him: Zacchaeus, hurry up and get down. For I must stay at your house today. 
6 And Zacchaeus hurried down, and received Jesus joyfully. 
7 And the crowd saw this, and they began to grumble by saying: He has gone to stay with a sinful man. 
8 And Zacchaeus stood before the Lord and said to him: Behold, Lord, I give half of what I have to the poor, and if I have taken something from someone without justification then I will return fourfold. [Now this is not exactly what the law given by Moses asks to do. For the law of Moses does not specify exactly what to give to the poor but it does say that one must give a tenth of one's income to the members of the tribe of Levi, and that every three years one must share a tenth of one's income with the poor, and that if one wrongs a person then one must restore the entire damage by adding a fifth in the presence of a priest who is a descendant of Aaron.]
9 And Jesus said to him: Today salvation has come to this house, because this man is also a son of Abraham. 
10 For the Son of man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. 
11 And the crowd was listening to those words, and Jesus spoke the following parable because he was near Jerusalem and because the people thought that the kingdom of God would appear immediately. 
12 Therefore Jesus said: A certain nobleman went into a far country in order to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. 
13 And he called ten of his servants, and gave them ten pieces of gold, and said to them: Work with this money that I give you, until my return. 
14 But his fellow citizens hated him, and sent an ambassador after him to say: We do not want this man to reign over us. 
15 And when he returned, having received the kingdom, he called to him the servants to whom he had given the money. And he asked each of them to make an account, so that he might know what each had gained. 
16 And the first came and said: Lord, your piece of gold has become ten pieces of gold. 
17 And the king answered that servant and said: Well done, good servant. Since you have been faithful in a very small thing, I give you authority over ten cities. 
18 And the second came and said: Lord, your piece of gold has become five pieces of gold. 
19 And the king answered that servant and said: I make you ruler over five cities. 
20 And another came and said: Lord, here is your piece of gold. I had kept it in a napkin. 
21 For I was afraid of you, because you are an austere man. You take up what you have not laid down, and you reap what you have not sown. 
22 Then the king answered that servant and said: I judge you by your own words, you wicked servant. You knew that I am an austere man, taking up what I have not laid down and reaping what I have not sown. 
23 Why then have you not put my money in a bank. For I would have received it now with interest. 
24 And the king said to those who stood near: Take from him the piece of gold, and give it to the one who has ten pieces of gold. 
25 And they said to the king: Lord, he already has ten pieces of gold [and therefore that will make eleven pieces of gold for him]. 
26 And the king answered and said: I say to you, more will be given to him who has. But to him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. 
27 And now, bring here my enemies who have not wanted me to reign over them, and kill them before me. 
28 And when Jesus had spoken those words, he went ahead of the crowd and went up to Jerusalem. [Now Jesus knew that he had to be killed there.] 
29 And when he came near Bethphage and Bethany, at the mountain called the mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples by saying them the following thing. 
30 Go into the village there beside you. And while you will enter the village, you will find a young donkey which is tied and on which no man has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here. 
31 And if anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it', then you will say, 'The Lord has need of it'. 
32 So those who had been sent went away, and found that the things was as Jesus had told them. 
33 And while they were untying the donkey, its owners said to them: Why are you untying the donkey. 
34 And they answered and said: The Lord has need of it. 
35 And they brought the young donkey to Jesus, and threw their garments on the donkey, and put Jesus on it. 
36 And while Jesus was riding the donkey, people were spreading their clothes on the road. 
37 And when he was now approaching Jerusalem, at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the miracles that they had seen. 
38 And they were saying: Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest places. 
39 Then some of the Pharisees who were in the crowd said to Jesus: Teacher, rebuke your disciples. 
40 And Jesus answered and said: I tell you, if these persons keep silent then the stones will cry out. 
41 And when they were near the city, Jesus looked at it and lamented over it with the following words. 
42 If you had known today the things that belong to your peace, you the inhabitants. But now they are hidden from your eyes. 
43 For the days will come on you, when your enemies will surround you with trenches. They will surround you, and press you in on every side.
44 And they will destroy you and your children within you, and will not leave in you one stone on another, because you have not known the time of your visitation. 
45 And Jesus entered the temple and began to drive out those who were selling things and those who were buying things. 
46 And Jesus was saying to them: It is written, 'My house will be a house of prayer'. But you have made it a den of thieves. 
47 And Jesus taught daily in the temple. And concerning the chief priests, and the scribes, and the leaders of the people, they were seeking to destroy him. 
48 But they did not know how to do this without putting themselves in danger. For all the people were listening to Jesus with admiration.
