1 And Jesus spoke the following parable to them, in order to show that it is good to pray continuously and never stop. [That is to say, we must never succumb to the temptation to act in a publicly unjustifiable manner, but rather we must pray continuously for the restoration of the rights of all those who are unjustly oppressed. For the fact of praying allows us to remember the existence of the living God whose only will is that we never act in a publicly unjustifiable manner.] 
2 There was in a certain city a judge who did not fear God, and who had no regard for anyone. 
3 There was also in that city a widow who came to tell him: Give me justice against my adversary. 
4 For a long time he refused. But afterward he said within himself: Despite the fact that I do not fear God and that I have no regard for anyone, nevertheless I will give justice to this woman. 
5 For after that she will no longer come to disturb my peace. 
6 And the Lord [Jesus] said: Hear what the unrighteous judge says. 
7 And do you not think that God will do justice to his elect, to those who cry to him day and night while continuously behaving in a way that is pleasing to him. Will he delay in carrying out a plan towards them to accomplish the salvation of their souls. 
8 I say to you, he will not delay in doing them justice. But when the Son of man comes, will he find faith on the earth. 
9 And Jesus also spoke the following parable for those who are convinced in themselves that they are righteous, and believe themselves superior to others in this way. 
10 Two men went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other a publican. 
11 And the Pharisee stood and prayed within himself in the following way: O God, I thank you because I am not like the other men who are extortioners, or unjust, or adulterers, or even like this publican. 
12 I do fasting twice every week, and I give the tithe of all my income. 
13 And the publican was standing at a distance, and did not even dare to lift up his eyes toward the sky. And he was hitting his chest and saying: O God, be merciful to me because I am a sinner. 
14 I say to you, this publican went down to his house justified, rather than the Pharisee. For anyone who exalts himself will be lowered, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted. 
15 Some people brought their little children to Jesus, so that he could touch them. And when the disciples saw that, they told people not to do this thing. 
16 And Jesus called them to him by saying: Let the little children come to me, do not stop them from doing it. For the kingdom of God is for those who resemble them. 
17 Truly I say to you, whoever will not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will not enter it. [For a little child accepts a useful teaching with simplicity, and it is how one must behave if one wants to put the word of God into practice. A small child begins by imitating the useful thing he is asked to imitate in order to receive a reward, but those who do not have that spirit begin by discussing it while wondering if it is the right thing to do.] 
18 Then a certain leader questioned Jesus by saying: Good teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life. 
19 And Jesus said to him: Why are you calling me good. God [the creator of all things] is the only one who is [truly] good. 
20 You know the commandments: do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not say any false testimony, honor your father and your mother. 
21 And the leader said: I have practiced all these things since my youth. 
22 And when Jesus heard this answer, he said to that man: There is one more thing that you must do. Sell everything that you have, and give the money to those who are poor, and come to follow me [like my disciples who are now with me and who go wherever I go]. And then you will have a treasure in the heaven. [Now there are two reasons why it is evident that Jesus has said this thing with a certain mischief. The first reason is that Jesus is simply reacting to the response that he has received from that man, and the second reason is that such a request will no longer make sense for those who will want to inherit eternal life when Jesus is no longer present in the flesh.] 
23 And when that man heard those words, he became heartbroken. For he was very rich.
24 And Jesus saw that he had become heartbroken, and Jesus said: It will be very hard for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. 
25 It is certainly easier for a camel to go through the hole of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. 
26 And the people heard those words of Jesus, and they said: Who then can be saved. [For we know that our ancestor Abraham was very rich and had multiple servants, and he was chosen by God and received the promises that we know. Therefore we did not think that wealth could constitute such a great obstacle for those who seek the love of God.] 
27 And Jesus answered and said: The things that are impossible with men are possible with God. 
28 Then Peter said: Lo, we have left everything and have followed you.
29 And Jesus said to them: Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house, or wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God, and who will not receive much more in this world. 
30 And such a person will also receive everlasting life in the world to come. 
31 Then Jesus called the twelve apostles to him and said to them: Behold we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man will be accomplished. 
32 For he will be delivered to the Gentiles, and they will mock him, and insult him, and spit on him. 
33 And after having whipped him, they will put him to death. But he will arise again on the third day. 
34 But they understood nothing of those words. They considered those words to be a hidden message, and they could not grasp the meaning of what Jesus said to them. 
35 And when Jesus was approaching Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting on the roadside and was begging. 
36 And that man heard and understood that a crowd was walking near him, and he asked what it meant. 
37 And they told him that it was Jesus of Nazareth who was passing by.
38 And that man cried out and said: Jesus, you the son of David, have pity on me. 
39 And those who were walking before Jesus rebuked that man in order to silence him, but he shouted more and more: O son of David, have pity on me. 
40 And Jesus stood still, and commanded to bring that man before him. And when that man had come near, Jesus asked him the following thing: What do you want me to do for you. 
41 And the man answered: Lord, I desire to receive my sight. 
42 And Jesus said to him: Receive your sight, your faith has saved you. 
43 And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus while praising God. And when all the people saw this thing, they praised God.
