1 Now Jesus called his twelve disciples together, and gave them the power to heal diseases and the power to cast out demons from people. 
2 And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
3 And he said to them: Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money. And do not carry two tunics. 
4 Wherever you enter a house, stay there and depart from there. 
5 And if they do not receive you in a town, then go out of that town and shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them. 
6 So they departed, and went from village to village, preaching the good news and healing people everywhere. 
7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by Jesus, and he was perplexed. For some were saying that John had risen from the dead. 
8 And others were saying that Elijah had appeared, and others were saying that one of the ancient prophets had risen. 
9 And Herod said, 'I have beheaded John. Who then is this one of whom I hear such things'. And Herod desired to see him. 
10 And when the apostles had returned, they told Jesus all that they had done. Then Jesus took them with him, and they went to a solitary place belonging to the city called Bethsaida. 
11 And the crowds perceived it, and they followed him. And Jesus received them, and spoke to them concerning the kingdom of God. And he also healed those who needed to be healed. 
12 And late in the afternoon, the twelve apostles came to Jesus and said to him: Send the multitude away, so that they may go into the surrounding villages and towns to lodge and get food. For we are here in a deserted place. 
13 But Jesus said to them, 'Give them something to eat yourself'. And they replied, 'We cannot do it because we have only five loaves and two fishes, unless we ourselves go and buy food for all this people'. 
14 They answered thus because there were about five thousand persons in that place. And Jesus said to his disciples: Cause them to sit in groups of fifty.
15 And they did so, they caused the whole multitude sit down. 
16 Then Jesus took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looked up to the sky, and blessed that food. Then he broke them and gave them to the disciples, to lay it before the multitude. 
17 And all the people ate and were satisfied, and they took up twelve baskets full of the leftover fragments of that food. 
18 Now it happened one day that Jesus was praying alone, and his disciples were near him. And Jesus asked them the following thing: What do people think about who I am. 
19 And they answered and said: Some say John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, and others say that one of the ancient prophets has risen.
20 And Jesus said to them, 'And you, who do you think I am'. And Peter answered and said, 'The Christ of God'. 
21 And Jesus strictly ordered them not to tell this thing to anyone. [Now the Jewish people are waiting for the coming of a great prophet who is announced not only by the patriarch Jacob in the blessing that he pronounced concerning his son Judah, but also by the prophets Daniel and Ezekiel among others. And Jesus gives this prohibition to his disciples because he knows that all the people will not believe in that word of his disciples who are constantly close to him, and Jesus does not want his disciples to be accused of having blasphemed when the Jewish leaders will accuse him himself of having blasphemed. While he is still alive in the flesh, he only wants to convince those who can be convinced that he is a prophet who acts in the name of the God of Moses.] 
22 And Jesus say to them: The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and be raised up on the third day. 
23 Then Jesus said to them all: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. 
24 For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. 
25 And what will be the profit for a person if he gains the whole world but destroys or loses his own life. 
26 For whoever will be ashamed of me and of my words, the Son of man will also be ashamed of that person when he comes in his own glory, in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. 
27 Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death without having seen the kingdom of God. [That is to say, some of you  who are here now will not die according to the flesh without having seen what the kingdom of God looks like. Now this word of Jesus has been accomplished a few days later.] 
28 About eight days after he had said those words, Jesus took with him Peter, and John, and James, and they went up into a mountain to pray.
29 And while Jesus was praying, the appearance of his face changed, and his garment became dazzling white. 
30 And behold, two men were talking with Jesus. 
31 It was Moses and Elijah who appeared in glory, and who were talking about his departure which he was soon to accomplish at Jerusalem. 
32 Now Peter and his companions were asleep. But they awakened, and they saw the glory of Jesus and the two men who were standing with him. 
33 And while those men were leaving Jesus, Peter said to Jesus, 'Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tents: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah'. Peter did not know what he was saying. 
34 And while he was saying those words, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and the disciples were terrified when they saw those men entering the cloud. 
35 And a voice came from the cloud by saying: This is my beloved son. Listen to him. 
36 And when the voice stopped, the disciples saw that Jesus was alone. And the disciples keep silent, and told no man in those days any of these things which they had seen. 
37 And on the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd come to Jesus. 
38 And behold, a man from the crowd cried out and said: Master, I beseech you to look at my son. For he is my only child. 
39 And lo, it happens that an evil spirit seizes my son, and he suddenly cried out. And the spirit causes him lose all control, and causes him foam at the mouth, and hardly moves away from him after he has been bruised. 
40 And I have besought your disciples to cast out this spirit, but they have not been able to do it. 
41 Then Jesus answered and said: O faithless and perverse generation, how long will I be with you and bear you. Bring your son here.
42 And while that son was approaching, the demon threw him to the ground and shook him severely. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 
43 And all the people were astonished at the great power of God. 
44 And while everyone was marveling at all the things that Jesus had done, he said to his disciples: Let the following words sink into your ears, 'The Son of man will be given into the hands of men'. 
45 But the disciples did not understand the meaning of those words. For it was hidden from them, so that they could not understand it. And they were afraid to ask Jesus to explain it to them. 
46 Now a discussion arose among them, and it was a question of knowing which of them should be the greatest. 
47 And Jesus saw the thoughts of their hearts, and he took a child whom he placed near himself. 
48 And Jesus said to them: Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who has sent me. For he who is least among you all, the same is the one who is great. [Now Jesus has said that the least among his apostles is the one who is great because their only goal must be to teach the exact knowledge of the will of God, and these apostles must have no other purpose among men.] 
49 And John answered and said: Master, we had seen someone casting out demons in your name, and we had forbidden him to act thus because he does not belong to our group. 
50 And Jesus said to him: Do not forbid it, for whoever is not against you is for you. 
51 Now when the time drew near for him to be taken up into heaven, Jesus decided to go to Jerusalem. 
52 And he sent messengers ahead of him, and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to prepare a place for him. 
53 But the people there did not want to welcome Jesus, because he was going toward Jerusalem. 
54 And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said: Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, like the prophet Elijah had done in his time. 
55 And Jesus turned toward them and rebuked them by saying: You do not know what is this spirit that drives you to think in this way [that is to say, you do not understand that it is not the right thing to do]. 
56 For the Son of man has not come to destroy the lives, but to save them. And they went to another village. 
57 And while they were on the road, a certain man said to Jesus: I will follow you wherever you go. 
58 And Jesus said to him: Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has no place to lay his head. 
59 And Jesus said to another, 'Follow me'. But he said to Jesus, 'Lord, allow me to go first to bury my father'. 
60 And Jesus said to him: Let the dead bury their dead. As for you, go and preach the kingdom of God. 
61 And another said: I will follow you, Lord. But allow me first to go and say goodbye to those who are at my house. 
62 And Jesus said to him: No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God.
