1 Meanwhile, an innumerable multitude of people had gathered together and were trampling one another. And Jesus began to say to his disciples: Beware above all of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
2 For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, nor concealed that will not be made known. 
3 Therefore whatever you have spoken in darkness will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops. 
4 And I say to you, my friends: Do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and are not able to do anything more after that. 
5 For I will show you the one whom you should fear. Fear the one who has the power to cast you into hell after he has killed your body. Yes, I say to you, he is the one whom you must fear. 
6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies. And nevertheless not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God. 
7 Even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Therefore do not be afraid, you are more valuable than many sparrows. 
8 And I say to you, whoever will confess me before men, the Son of man also will confess him before the angels of God. 
9 But whoever will deny me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
10 And whoever will speak a word against the Son of man, it will be forgiven him. But whoever will blaspheme against the Holy Spirit, the same will not be forgiven. 
11 When they bring you before the synagogues, or before the rulers and the authorities, do not worry about how you will react or what you will say. 
12 For the Holy Spirit will teach you at that very moment what you ought to say. 
13 And someone in the crowd said to Jesus: Teacher, tell my brother to share with me the inheritance that we have received from our deceased parent. 
14 And Jesus said to him: Man, who has appointed me to be a judge or a divider among you. [I am here now in the flesh to teach you to obey the Holy Spirit, and I do it by showing you how I too am obeying the Holy Spirit.] 
15 Then Jesus said to them: Take heed, and beware of covetousness. For the life of a person does not consist of his riches. 
16 And Jesus told them this parable: The ground of a certain rich man produced plentifully. 
17 And he reasoned within himself by saying: What will I do. For I have not enough room to store all my harvest. 
18 And he said: I will do the following thing. I will pull down my barns, and build bigger ones, and there I will store all my harvest and all my goods. 
19 And I will say to my soul: Soul, you have plenty of goods laid up for many years. Take your rest, eat and drink, and be merry. 
20 But God said to him: You are foolish. This very night your life will be taken away from your body. And what you have prepared, for whom will it be. 
21 So is the one who lays up riches only for himself, and is not rich for God. 
22 Then Jesus said to his disciples: Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life concerning what you will eat, or about your body concerning what you will wear. 
23 The life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. 
24 Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, and they have neither storeroom nor barn, and nevertheless God feeds them. And now, you are more valuable than the birds. 
25 And which one of you, being anxious, can add a cubit to the measure of his life. 
26 If then you cannot do even the least thing, why do you worry about the remnant. 
27 Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory has not been clothed like one of these. 
28 If God clothes thus the grass which is today in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven, then does he not have more reason to clothe you [properly at the appropriate time], O you of little faith.
29 Therefore do not seek what you will eat or what you will drink, and do not be anxious. 
30 For the people of the world are those who seek such things, and your Father knows when you need them. 
31 Rather seek the kingdom of God, and all these things will be given to you on the top. 
32 Do not be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. 
33 Sell what you have, and give alms. Make for yourselves purses that do not wear out, a treasure in the heaven so that it may endure forever, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys. 
34 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 
35 Let your waists be girded, and your lamps lit. 
36 And be yourselves like men who are waiting for their master to return from the wedding, in order to open the door immediately as soon as he comes and knocks. 
37 Blessed are those servants whom the Lord will find awake when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will gird himself, and will make them sit down to eat, and will come forth and serve them. 
38 Whether he comes in the second watch or in the third watch, blessed are those servants whom he finds watching. 
39 And now understand the following thing. If the master of a house knows at what moment the thief will come, then he will watch and not allow his house to be broken into. 
40 Therefore be ready at all times [since you do not know the day and hour]. For the Son of man will come at a time that you will not expect. 
41 And Peter said to Jesus: Master, have you spoken this parable for us [who are your close disciples] or for all the people [of the twelve tribes]. 
42 And the Lord said: Who then is the faithful and wise steward whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time. 
43 Blessed is that servant whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing. 
44 Truly I say to you, the master will set that servant over all his possessions. 
45 But if that servant says to himself, 'My master is delaying his coming', and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink in order to get drunk. 
46 Then the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect, and at an hour that he does not know, and will tear him to pieces, and will give him his portion with the unfaithful. 
47 And that servant who knew the will of his master, and have neither prepared himself nor done according to that will, will be beaten with many lashes. 
48 But the one who did not know the will of his master and who has done things worthy of punishment will be beaten with few lashes. For much will be required from the one to whom much is given, and it will be asked more from the one to whom more has been entrusted. 
49 I have come to put a fire on the earth. And what have I to desire, if it has already been kindled. 
50 There is a baptism with which I must be baptized, and I eagerly await the right time. 
51 Do you think that I have come [in the flesh] give peace on the earth. No, I tell you, but rather division. 
52 For from now on five in one house will be divided, three against two, and two against three. 
53 The father against his son, and the son against his father. The mother against her daughter, and the daughter against her mother. The mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. 
54 Then Jesus said to the people: When you see a cloud rising from the west, you immediately say, 'The rain is coming'. And so it is. 
55 And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, 'There will be an overwhelming heat'. And so it is. 
56 Hypocrites. You know how to discern the face of the earth and the sky. How is it that you do not discern this time. 
57 And why do you not discern by yourselves what is right. 
58 When you go with your adversary before the magistrate, try on the way to free yourself from him. Lest he drag you before the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer cast you in prison. 
59 I say to you, you will not get out of there until you have paid the very last penny.
