1 Jesus also said to his disciples: There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and it was said to that rich man that his steward was wasting his goods. 
2 And he called his steward and said to him: What is this that I hear concerning you. Give an account of your stewardship, for you will no longer manage my goods. 
3 Then the steward said within himself: What will I do, since my master takes away the stewardship from me. I do not have the strength to cultivate the soil, and I would feel a great shame if I have to become a beggar. 
4 I know what I will do, so that people may receive me into their houses when I am dismissed from my stewardship. 
5 Then he called each of the debtors of his master, and he said to the first: How much do you owe my master. 
6 And he answered, 'One hundred measures of oil'. And the steward said to him, 'Take your note, and sit down quickly, and write fifty'.
7 Then the steward said to another, 'How much do you owe'. And he replied, 'A hundred measures of wheat'. And the steward said to him, 'Take your note and write eighty'. 
8 And the master commended the unfaithful steward for having acted prudently. For the children of this world are more prudent towards their fellow men than the children of light. [Now this story does not specify the exact relationship between the rich man and his steward, nor how much the steward knew about the origin of this wealth which could have come from a form of oppression of others when we read the advice that Jesus is going to give below, nor what was the impact that deed of the steward on the amount of the possessions of his master. For the debtors who have acted according to what the steward told them could only maintain a good conscience if they were aware of the special rights that the steward had over the management of those goods, and they certainly acted with a good conscience since the rich man was aware of what happened.]
9 And I say to you the following thing. Make for yourselves friends with the riches of unrighteousness, so that those friends may receive you into everlasting dwellings when those riches fail. 
10 He who is faithful in a little is faithful also in much, and he who is unrighteous in a little is unrighteous also in much. 
11 If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous riches, then who will entrust you with the true treasure. 
12 And if you have not been faithful in what belongs to someone else, then who will give you that which is your own. 
13 No servant can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and not care about the other. You cannot serve God and riches. 
14 And the Pharisees who were lovers of money heard all those words also, and they mocked Jesus. 
15 And Jesus said to them: You strive to be appreciated in the appearances that people see of you, but God knows your hearts. For what seduces the eyes of a person and enter his heart in this way is an abomination in the sight of God. 
16 The Law and the prophets have endured until John. And since that time the kingdom of God is proclaimed [by myself], and everyone uses violence to enter it. 
17 It is easier for the heaven and the earth to pass away than for one tittle of the law to fail. 
18 Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and whoever marries a woman who has divorced from her husband commits adultery. 
19 There was a certain rich man, and he was always clothed in purple and fine linen, and he lived sumptuously and delicately every day. 
20 And there was also a certain beggar named Lazarus who often stayed at the gate of the rich man, and his body was full of sores. 
21 And he was desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the table of the rich man, and the dogs was coming and licking his sores.
22 And the beggar died, and he was carried by the angels into the bosom of Abraham. And the rich man also died, and was buried. 
23 And while the rich man was in torments in hell, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. 
24 Then he cried out and said: Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. For I am in agony in this flame. 
25 And Abraham replied: Son, remember that in your lifetime you received your pleasures, and that Lazarus in his lifetime received pain. And now he is comforted here, and you are in agony. 
26 Moreover there is a great abyss set between us and you, so that no one may pass neither from here to you nor from there to us. 
27 And the rich man said: I beseech you then, father Abraham, to send Lazarus to the house of my father. 
28 For I have five brothers, and Lazarus may warn them so that they may not come also into this place of torment. 
29 And Abraham said to him: They have Moses and the prophets. May your brothers listen to them. 
30 And he said: No, father Abraham. But if someone goes to them from the dead, then they will amend their lives. 
31 And Abraham said to him: If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, then they will not be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead.
