1 Now on a sabbath day called the second-first, it happened that Jesus was crossing fields of grain. And his disciples plucked the ears, and rubbed them in their hands, and ate them. 
2 And some Pharisees said to them: Why do you do what is not lawful to do on the sabbath days. 
3 And Jesus answered them and said: Have you not read what David had done when he was hungry, him and those who were with him. 
4 David entered the house [temple] of God, and took the showbreads [which he asked from the hand of Ahimelech the priest], and ate of it, and gave of it to those who were with him, although those things can only be eaten by priests according to the law [since it is a food that is prepared to be placed for a certain time in the holy place of the sanctuary and to be renewed regularly]. 
5 And Jesus said to them: The Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath. 
6 Now Jesus entered the synagogue on another day of sabbath and taught, and there was in that place a man whose right hand was withered. 
7 And the scribes [who are the teachers of the law given by Moses to Israel] and the Pharisees [who are those who strive to live according to the law] were watching Jesus, to see if he would heal that sick man on the sabbath day. It was in order to find an accusation against him. 
8 But Jesus knew their thoughts, and he said to the man whose hand was withered, 'Get up, and stand there in the middle of the assembly'. And that man arose and stood. 
9 Then Jesus said to them: I ask you if it is lawful on the sabbath days to do good to a person or to harm a person, to save a life or to destroy a life. 
10 And Jesus walked his gaze over them all, and then he said to the sick man, 'Stretch forth your hand'. And the man did so, and his hand was healed. 
11 Then they were filled with madness, and they communed one with another to find out what they will do to Jesus. 
12 In those days Jesus went to a mountain to pray, and he spent the whole night praying to God. 
13 And when the day appeared, then he called his disciples. And he chose twelve from among them, to whom he gave the name of apostles. 
14 Simon whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James, and John, and Philip, and Bartholomew. 
15 And Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called Zealot. 
16 And Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot who became a traitor.
17 And Jesus went down with them, and stood in the plain. There were in that place a crowd of his disciples, and also a multitude of people who had come from all Judea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon. They had come to hear Jesus, and to be healed of their diseases. 
18 Those who were tormented by unclean spirits were healed. 
19 And all the multitude sought to touch him, because a power went forth out of him and healed them all. 
20 Then Jesus lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: Blessed are you who are poor. For the kingdom of God is yours. [Now Jesus is speaking of poverty in personal wisdom and not in material goods.] 
21 Blessed are you who are now hungry [for justice], for you will be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep now [because of injustice], for you will laugh. 
22 Blessed are you when men hate you [without cause], when they separate you and insult you [without cause], and sully your name to make it a subject of disgust while you are acting out of love for the Son of man. 
23 Rejoice in that day and be glad. For behold, your reward is great in the heaven. For this is how their fathers have acted toward the prophets. 
24 But woe to you who are rich [that is to say, those who place their hope in their possession]. For you have your consolation. 
25 Woe to you who are full [that is to say, those who are not afflicted by the injustices that they either cause or observe], because you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, because you will be in mourning and in tears. 
26 Woe to you when all men speak well of you. For this is how their fathers have acted toward the false prophets. 
27 But I say the following thing to you who are listening. Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you. [That is to say, seek the good of all without planning discrimination.] 
28 Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who hurt you. [Now each person must give a proportional response to each offense that is made against him, but this may simply consist of distancing oneself in a certain way, depending on the nature of the offense.] 
29 If someone slaps you on one cheek, then offer also the other [that is to say, takes your distance in a certain way but do not be obsessed with the desire to make particular discrimination when you meditate on the achievements that you want to accomplish]. If someone takes your cloak, then do not prevent him from taking your coat also [that is to say, do not be preoccupied with an offense so as to no longer desire to carry out other accomplishments]. 
30 Give to everyone who asks you [that is to say, do not plan particular discrimination in your heart], and do not claim your good from the one who takes it [that is to say, if you can survive the loss of a good then do not make it an obsession]. 
31 Whatever you want people to do to you, do the same to them. 
32 If you love only those who love you, then what have you done that is appreciable. Sinners also love those who love them. 
33 If you do good only to those who do good to you, then what have you done that is appreciable. For even sinners act in this way. 
34 And if you lend only to those from whom you hope to receive, then what have you done that is appreciable. Sinners also lend to sinners, in order to receive in the same way. 
35 But love your enemies, and do good without discrimination, and lend to others without doing so with the intention of earning more. And your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High. For he is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked. 
36 Therefore be merciful, as your Father also is merciful. 
37 Judge not, and you will not be judged. Condemn not, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. 
38 Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be put into your bosom. For it will be measured to you with the measure that you use. 
39 And Jesus also told them this parable: Can a blind man lead a blind man. Will they not both fall into the ditch. 
40 The disciple is not above his teacher, but whoever wants to be a perfect disciple will be like his teacher. [Now this is only true because of the perfection of this particular teacher.] 
41 Why do you look for the speck that is in the eye of your brother, but do not notice the beam that is in your own eye. [That is to say, you cannot change a person but only inform him of what is good and continue on your own way.] 
42 How can you say to your brother, 'Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye', when you do not see the beam that is in your own eye. You hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly concerning the speck that is in the eye of your brother. 
43 For a good tree does not bring forth bad fruits, and a bad tree does not bring forth good fruits. [Now the fruits produced by a person are not his descendants but his deeds.] 
44 For each tree is known by its own fruits. For people do not gather figs from thorns, and they do not gather grapes from thistles. 
45 A good person brings forth good things out of the good treasure of his heart, and an evil person brings forth evil things out of the evil treasure of his heart. For it is out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. 
46 Why do you call me 'Lord, Lord', and do not do the things that I say.
47 Everyone who comes to me, and hears my words, and puts them into practice, I will show you to whom he is like. 
48 He is like a man who was building a house, and dug deep, and laid the foundation on a rock. And when floods came, the waters beat against that house but could not shake it because it had been well built. 
49 But he who hears my words and does not put it into practice is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. And when floods came and the waters beat against it, then that house fell easily and its destruction was great.
