1 And now, O you the priests, the following warning concerns you. 
2 If you do not listen, if the desire of your heart is not to give glory to my name, says Yahweh the God of armies, then I will send a curse on you to curse your blessings. Yes, I have cursed the other priests in the past because you do not take it to heart. 
3 Behold I will destroy your seed and throw dung on your faces, the dung of your solemn feasts, and you will be carried away with it. 
4 And you will know that I have given you this warning so that my covenant with Levi may stand, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
5 My covenant with him was for life and for peace. And I gave him the service that he must do for me in order to reward the fear that he had of me, since he was afraid before my name. 
6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found on his lips. He walked with me in peace and in uprightness, and he turned many away from iniquity. 
7 For the lips of a priest should keep knowledge, since the people should seek the law at his mouth. For he is a messenger of Yahweh the God of armies. 
8 But you have strayed from the way, and you have caused many to stumble in the law. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
9 Therefore I also have made you contemptible and vile before all the people, because you have not kept my ways and have shown favoritism when interpreting the law. 
10 Do we not all have one father. Is it not one God who created us. Why then do we act treacherously every man against his brother, profaning thus the covenant of our fathers. 
11 Judah had acted treacherously, and an abomination had been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah had profaned the holiness of Yahweh which he loved [that is to say, his holy temple], and had married the daughter of a foreign god [that is to say, they had chosen to follow false gods]. 
12 Yahweh will cut off the man who does this, whether the initiator or the follower. He will be cut off from the tents of Jacob, even if he brings an offering to Yahweh the God of armies. 
13 And it is what you are doing again: You cover the altar of Yahweh with the tears of your eyes, insomuch that he no longer regards your offering and refuses the things from your hands. 
14 And you say, 'Why'. It is because Yahweh has been witness between you and the wife of your youth. You have acted treacherously against her [by rejecting her], although she is your companion and your wife by covenant. 
15 No one has done such a thing with a remnant of understanding. Only one has done it, and why had he done it. It was because he sought the offspring that God had promised him. Therefore take care of your spirit, and let no one act treacherously against the wife of his youth. [Now the person of whom Yahweh is talking about in this declaration is not necessarily a character known in the holy scriptures.] 
16 For I hate it when a person rejects others without having publicly acceptable justification in his heart, says Yahweh the God of Israel, and I hate it when a person covers his garment [and thus his soul] with the violence done to others, says Yahweh the God of armies. Therefore take care of your spirit, and do not act treacherously. 
17 You weary Yahweh with your words [that is to say, many among the people], and you say, 'How have we wearied him'. It is when you say, 'Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of Yahweh, and he delights in them', or when you say, 'Where is the God of the concept of justice'.
