1 Behold I will send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, the messenger of the covenant that you desire. Behold he comes, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
2 Who can endure in the day of his coming [that is to say, in the days after he has accomplished his mission]. Who will stand when he will have appeared. For he will be like the fire of a refiner, like the soap of a clothes washer. 
3 He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi. He will refine them like gold and silver are refined, and they will present offerings to Yahweh in righteousness. 
4 Then the offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to Yahweh, as in the days of old, as in the ancient years. 
5 And I will come near to you for judgment, and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against those who swear falsely, and against those who withhold the wages of the hireling, and against those who oppress the widow and the fatherless, and against those who defraud the sojourner, against all those who do not fear me, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
6 For I am Yahweh, I do not change. Therefore you the [true spiritual] children of Jacob will not be consumed. 
7 Since the days of your fathers you have turned away from my ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says Yahweh the God of armies. But you say, 'In what way have we distanced ourselves from you'. 
8 Should a man rob God. And nevertheless you have robbed me. But you say, 'In what way have we robbed you'. 
9 In the tithes and in the offerings due to me. You are cursed with a curse because you have robbed me, even this whole nation. 
10 Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, so that there may be food in my house [for my servants the Levites]. Test me now in this thing, says Yahweh the God of armies, and see if I will not open the windows of heaven for you to pour out a blessing without measure. 
11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he will not destroy the fruits of your ground. And the vine will surely yield its fruit in your fields, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
12 And all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a delightsome land, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
13 Your words have been harsh against me [that is to say, you who are among those who desire to please me], says Yahweh. And you say, 'What have we said against you'. 
14 You have said: It is vain to serve God. What profit have we obtained by striving to obey all his commandments of which we are aware and by walking mournfully before Yahweh the God of armies. 
15 And now we see the happiness of proud people. Yes, those who commit wickedness prosper. They transgress against God and they escape his anger. 
16 So those who fear Yahweh spoke to one another. And Yahweh paid attention and listened, and a book of remembrance was written before him for those who fear Yahweh and honor his name. 
17 They will be mine, says Yahweh the God of armies, my own possession in the day when I will set them apart. And I will spare them, as a man spares his son who serves him. 
18 And you will again see the difference between the righteous and the wicked, between those who serve God and those who do not serve him.
