1 The burden of the word of Yahweh to Israel by Malachi. 
2 I have loved you, says Yahweh. And nevertheless you say: How do you show us your love. 
3 Is not Esau the brother of Jacob, says Yahweh. And nevertheless I have loved Jacob, and I have hated Esau. I made his mountains desolate, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness. 
4 Edom may say, 'We are destroyed, but we will raise up the ruins'. But Yahweh the God of armies says the following thing: Let them build, but I will destroy. And they will be called the land of wickedness, a people against whom Yahweh is angry forever. 
5 And your own eyes will see it, and you will say: Yahweh is great beyond the borders of Israel. 
6 A son honors his father, and a servant his master. Therefore if I am a father, then where is the honor that is due to me. And if I am a master, then where is the fear of me. Consider those questions from Yahweh the God of armies, O you the priests who despise my name and who say: In what way have we despised your name. 
7 You offer unclean food on my altar [instead of rejecting the children of Israel who come to you with such offerings to ask you to practice the rituals of the law given by Moses], and you say, 'In what way have we polluted you'. You have done it by saying [in your hearts]: The table of Yahweh is contemptible [because this God does not deserve to receive food of very good quality]. 
8 When you offer a blind animal for a sacrifice, is it not evil [O children of Israel]. When you offer a lame or disabled animal, is it not evil. Will your governor receive you well if you offer it now to him. Will he welcome you. Says Yahweh the God of armies. 
9 And you come to me with those things and you say, 'We are now going to entreat God so that he may be favorable to us'. But is this God going to look at you with a good eye. Says Yahweh the God of armies. 
10 Who among you will shut the doors [of the temple that has been built to bear my name]. I have not yet chosen that person but I am beginning to desire that it will happen so that you no longer light the fire on my altar in vain [since you offer me things that disgust me]. I have no pleasure in you, says Yahweh the God of armies, and the offerings of your hand are not acceptable to me. 
11 For my name is great among the nations from the rising of the sun to its going down, and in many places they burn incense to honor my name and they make offerings that come from the good will of their hearts. For my name is great among the nations, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
12 But you profane it by saying [in your hearts]: The table of Yahweh is contemptible and is worthy of being polluted by the poor quality of the food that we offer there. 
13 And you say [concerning these rituals that I commanded you to do by the hand of my servant Moses], 'Behold it causes us such a weariness'. And you despise it, says Yahweh the God of armies. And concerning the offerings which you bring, you bring what has been taken from other by violence, or what is lame, or what is sick. Should I accept those things from your hands. Says Yahweh. 
14 Cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a [big] healthy male, and who dedicates and sacrifices to Yahweh a poor quality beast [that is to say, a beast that does not have much flesh]. For I am a great king, says Yahweh the God of armies, and my name is awesome among the nations.
