1 Woe is me, for I am like when they have gathered the summer fruits, like the gleaning of grapes after the vintage. There are no clusters to eat, nor the first fruits that my soul desires. 
2 The good man has perished from the earth, and there is no one righteous among men. They all lie in wait for blood, each hunts his brother with a net. 
3 Their hands are skillful in doing evil. The leaders demands bribes, and the judges judge for a reward, and the one who is great utters the evil desire of his soul. So they wrap it up. 
4 The best among them is like a brier, the most righteous is worse than a thornbush. The day of your watchmen has come, for your punishment. Now they will be confused. 
5 Do not trust a neighbor, do not confide in a friend. Guard the doors of your mouth before her who lies in your bosom. 
6 For the son dishonors the father, and the daughter rises up against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. The enemies of a person are those of his own house. 
7 Therefore I will look to Yahweh, I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. 
8 Do not rejoice against me, O my enemy. For although I fall, I will rise up again. Although I sit in darkness, Yahweh will be a light to me. 
9 I will bear the indignation of Yahweh because I have sinned against him, until he pleads my cause and executes judgment for me. He will bring me forth to the light, and I will see his righteousness. 
10 Then enemy will see it and will be covered with shame, the one who was saying to me, 'Where is Yahweh your God. Let us rejoice in his sight while you are trampled underfoot like the mire of the streets'. 
11 In the day when your walls will be rebuilt, in that day your borders will be extended. 
12 In that day they will come to you from Assyria and from the cities of Egypt. They will come from Egypt and from the other side of the river Euphrates, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain. 
13 But before that the land will be desolate because of its inhabitants, because of the fruit of their doings. 
14 And afterward [O Yahweh], you will shepherd your people with your rod, the flock of your heritage who dwell solitarily in the forest in the midst of Carmel. Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old. 
15 As in the day when they came out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvellous things. 
16 The nations will see it, and will be ashamed because of the power of my people. They will lay their hands on their mouths, and their ears will be deafened. 
17 They will lick the dust like a serpent, like the creeping things of the earth. They will be terrified out of their strongholds, and they will come with fear to Yahweh our God, and will fear because of you. 
18 Who is a God like you, who forgives iniquity in order to forget the transgression of the remnant of his heritage. He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in mercy. 
19 He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities under his feet, and cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. 
20 You will show faithfulness to Jacob, kindness to Abraham, as you had sworn to our fathers in the days of old.
