1 Hear now what Yahweh says: Arise and plead before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice. 
2 Hear the controversy of Yahweh, O mountains, and you the strong foundations of the earth. For Yahweh has a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel. 
3 O my people, what have I done to you. How have I wearied you. Answer me. 
4 For I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and redeemed you from the house of bondage. And I sent before you Moses, and Aaron, and Miriam. 
5 O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab had planned, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him. Remember also all the events that took place from the time when the congregation was camping at Shittim to the time when your fathers reached Gilgal [just after crossing the Jordan under the leadership of Joshua], and understand the righteousness of Yahweh. [Now it was at Shittim that the Midianite girls came to seduce the males among the children of Israel, in the hope that Yahweh would destroy a part of his people for this abandonment. And shortly afterward Moses avenged the children of Israel for this intention of the Midianites. And shortly afterward two tribes and half a tribe of the twelve tribes of Israel wished not to go and possess a part of the promise land on the other side of the Jordan with the other children of Israel, because they saw that their cattle which they had acquired during the war could flourish in the place where they were, and it was granted to them.]
6 With what will I come before Yahweh, to bow myself before the Most High God. Will I come before him with burnt offerings made of yearling calves. 
7 Will Yahweh be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousand rivers of olive oil. Will I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul. 
8 He has shown you what is good, O man. And what does Yahweh require of you except to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God. 
9 The voice of Yahweh cries to the city, and the wise man will see your name. Hear the rod, and him who has appointed it. 
10 Are there still treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the small ephah that is a curse. 
11 Can a merchant be guiltless when he alters the scales or the weights that he owns. 
12 For the rich people of the land are full of cruelty, and its inhabitants speak falsely, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. 
13 Therefore I will smite you grievously. I will destroy you because of your sins. 
14 You will eat and not be satisfied, and your humiliation will be in the midst of you. You will protect your own, but I will deliver those whom you have protected to the sword. 
15 You will sow, but you will not reap. You will tread the olives, but you will not get any oil. You will crush your grapes, but you will not get enough juice to have wine to drink. 
16 For you have kept the statutes of Omri and all the works of the house of Ahab, and you walk in their counsels. Therefore I will make you a desolation, and I will make your inhabitants a subject of hissing, and you will bear the reproach of my people [that is to say, you who are the culprits among my people].
