1 The word of Yahweh that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, and of Ahaz, and of Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and which are prophecies concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. 
2 Hear, you all peoples. Pay attention, O earth, and all that is in you. Let the Lord Yahweh be witness against you, the Lord himself from his holy temple. 
3 For behold, the Lord will come forth out of his place. He will come down and tread on the high places of the earth. 
4 And the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys will split, like wax before the fire, like water flowing on a slope. 
5 And all this will happen because of the transgression of Jacob, and because of the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob if not Samaria. What are the high places of Judah if not Jerusalem. 
6 Therefore I will make Samaria like a heap of stones of the field, a place to plant vineyards. I will pour down its stones into the valley, and I will uncover its foundations. 
7 And all its graven images will be broken to pieces, and all its gifts will be burned with fire, and I will devastate all its idols. For she got it as the hire of a whore, and they will return to the hire of a whore. 
8 Therefore I will lament and wail [says Micah]. I will go barefoot and naked, and I will cry like a jackal, and I will wail like an ostrich. 
9 For the wounds of Samaria are incurable, and it will come to Judah and reach the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem. 
10 Do not declare it in Gath, do not weep in Acco. Roll yourself in the dust at Beth Ophrah. 
11 You who dwell at Shaphir, go on your way naked and ashamed. The inhabitant of Zaanan will not come forth in the mourning of Bethezel. The enemy will receive from you for his standing. 
12 For the inhabitants of Maroth wait anxiously for good, but evil has come down from Yahweh to the gate of Jerusalem. 
13 Harness the horses to your chariot, O inhabitant of Lachish. You have been the first cause of sin to the daughter of Zion, for the transgressions of Israel are traceable to you. 
14 Therefore you will give presents to Moresheth-gath. The houses of Achzib will be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.
15 I will bring you a new master, O inhabitant of Mareshah. The glory of Israel will depart to Adullam. 
16 Shave yourself, cut off your hair for the sake of your beloved children. Enlarge your baldness like an eagle, for they are going into captivity from you. [Concerning the kingdom of Israel, its destruction is inevitable since the transgression of the first king who was Jeroboam the son of Nebat. And concerning the kingdom of Judah, its destruction is announced before the days of king Manasseh the son of Hezekiah but this is also inevitable because the introduction of a house of God which is established in Jerusalem in those days is a response given to a transgression. Yahweh who is the holy spirit of Elohim said that he himself is the only Elohim, and thus he had announced to Abraham that his descendants will be slaves of a foreign people before being freed to take possession of the promised land.]
