1 But it will happen in the last days that the mountain of the house of Yahweh will be established on the top of the mountains, and will be exalted above the hills, and peoples will flow to it. 
2 And many nations will go and say: Come, and let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us his ways, and we will walk in his paths. For the law will go forth out of Zion, the word of Yahweh will go forth from Jerusalem [and will spread throughout the whole world].
3 He will judge between many peoples, and he will decide concerning strong nations afar off. They will turn their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. A nation will no longer lift up the sword against another nation, and they will no longer learn to do war. 
4 But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one will make them afraid. For the mouth of Yahweh the God of armies has spoken it. 
5 For all the peoples were walking every one in the name of his god, but in those days we will walk in the name of Yahweh our God forever and ever.
6 In that day, says Yahweh, I will gather the lame, and I will gather those who were driven away and those whom I had afflicted. 
7 And I will make of the lame a remnant, and of those who were driven out a mighty nation. And Yahweh will reign over them in mount Zion from henceforth and forever. 
8 And you, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the daughter of Zion, it will come to you. The first dominion will come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem. 
9 And now why do you cry out so loudly. Is there no king in you. Have you lost your wise counselors. For it appears that you have been seized by pangs like a woman giving birth. 
10 Be in pain and groan like a woman giving birth, O daughter of Zion. For now you will leave the city, and you will dwell in the field, and you will even go to Babylon. But you will be rescued there, for Yahweh will redeem you there from the hand of your enemies. 
11 Now many nations have gathered against you by saying, Let it be defiled, and let our eyes be satisfied in Zion. 
12 But they do not know the thoughts of Yahweh, they do not understand his counsel. For he has gathered them like the sheaves to the threshing floor.
13 Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion. For I will make your horn like iron, and I will make your hoofs like brass, and you will crush many peoples. And I will dedicate their riches to Yahweh, and their wealth to the Lord of the whole earth.
