1 On the twenty fourth day of that same month, the children of Israel assembled to make a fasting, wearing sackcloth and dust on their bodies. 
2 Those who were of the seed of Israel had separated themselves from all the foreigners, and they stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. 
3 And the book of the law of Yahweh their God was read before them for a quarter of the day, and they confessed their sins and worshiped Yahweh their God during another quarter. 
4 Then Jeshua, and Bani, and Kadmiel, and Shebaniah, and Bunni, and Sherebiah, and Bani, and Chenani, they stood up on the platform of the Levites and cried with a loud voice to Yahweh their God. 
5 And the Levites, namely Jeshua and Kadmiel, and Bani, and Hashabneiah, and Sherebiah, and Hodiah, and Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, they spoke and said: Stand up, and praise Yahweh your God who is alive for ever and ever. Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
6 You are Yahweh, you alone. You have made the heaven, and the heaven of heavens with all their army, and the earth and all that is on it, and the seas and all that is in them. And you give life to everything, and the army of the heaven worships you. 
7 You are Yahweh, the God who has chosen Abram. And you brought him out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the name Abraham. 
8 You found his heart faithful before you, and you made a covenant with him. You promised to give to his seed the land of the Canaanites, and of the Hittites, and of the Amorites, and of the Perizzites, and of the Jebusites, and of the Girgashites. And you have performed your word, because you are righteous. 
9 You saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and you heard their cry near the red sea. 
10 You performed signs and wonders on Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land. For you knew that those Egyptians acted arrogantly, and therefore you used them to establish your name as it appears today. [You are Yahweh who brought us out of the severe servitude maintained by those Egyptians] 
11 For you divided the sea before our fathers, and they went through the middle of the sea on dry ground. But you cast those who pursued them into the sea, like a heavy stone sank into water. 
12 And you led our fathers with a pillar of clouds during the day, and with a pillar of fire at night to give them light on the path that they had to take. 
13 You came down also on mount Sinai, and spoke to them from heaven, and you gave them righteous judgments and true laws, good statutes and commandments. 
14 You made known to them your holy sabbath, and you gave them precepts and statutes and laws by the hand of Moses your servant. 
15 And you gave them bread from heaven when they were hungry, and you brought water out of the rock when they were thirsty. And you told them to go and take possession of the land that you had sworn to give them. 
16 But our fathers were arrogant toward you in their response to this order, and they stiffened their necks so as not to listen to you. 
17 For they refused to obey, and they forgot the wonderful works that you had done for them. And they hardened their necks, and in their rebellion they appointed a leader to return to their bondage in the land of Egypt. But you are a God ready to forgive, compassionate and merciful, slow to anger and rich in tenderness, and therefore you did not forsake them [you could have destroyed them and kept Moses alone in the same way that Noah had been kept alone with seven people at his time, but you chose to allow their children to carry the memory of the good deeds that their fathers had done before their transgressions]. 
18 And when they made for themselves [to worship it] a molten calf and said: O Israel, here is your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
19 They had grievously insulted you by this action, but it is because of your great mercy that you had not forsaken them in the wilderness. For the pillar of cloud did not cease to guide them during the day, and there was always the pillar of fire at night to give them light on the path that they had to take.
20 And you gave them your good spirit to make them wise [some of them, and among the men of war there were Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua the son of Nun]. And you did not withhold your manna from their mouth, and you gave them water for their thirst. 
21 And you fed them during forty years in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing. Their clothes had not been damaged, and their feet did not swell. 
22 You gave them kingdoms and peoples, and also other lands which were not included in the promise. And they possessed the land of Sihon king of Heshbon and the land of Og king of Bashan. 
23 And you multiplied their children like the stars of the heaven, and you brought them into the land about which you had commanded their fathers to go and possess it [and their fathers had not obeyed this command]. 
24 So their children went in and possessed the land, and you submitted to them the inhabitants of the land, namely the Canaanites. You gave into their hands the people of the land with their kings, so that they might do whatever they wanted to their enemies. 
25 And they took fortified cities and fertile lands, and they possessed houses filled with all kinds of good things, and dug wells, and vineyards, and olive trees, and fruit trees in abundance. And they ate and were satisfied, and they became fat and lived in pleasure through your great goodness. 
26 Nevertheless they rose up and rebelled against you. They threw your law behind their backs, and killed your prophets who admonished them to return to you, and they made great provocations against you. 
27 Therefore you gave them into the hand of their adversaries to oppress them. And they cried out to you in the time of their distress, and you heard them from the heaven because of your great mercy, and you gave them savior who saved them from the hand of their adversaries. 
28 But when they had rest, they started doing wrong again before you. And therefore you gave them again into the hands of their enemies to have dominion over them. And they cried to you again, and you heard them from the heaven. You saved them many times because of your great mercy. 
29 You admonished them to return to your law, but they continued in pride and did not listen to your commandments. They sinned against your ordinances, these things that a man should do in order to live because of them [this is true in those days when the exact identity of God is still unknown]. They had a rebellious shoulder, and stiffened their neck, and did not obey. 
30 Nevertheless you endured them for many years. And you warned them by your spirit, by the hand of your prophets, but they would not listen. Therefore you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands. 
31 But in your great mercy you did not destroy them, nor forsake them, for you are a compassionate and merciful God. 
32 And now, our God, you are the great God who is mighty and awesome. You keep your covenant and show mercy. Do not consider as a small thing all the sufferings that have happened to us, we, and our kings, and our princes [leaders], and our priests, and our prophets, and our fathers, and all your people, from the days of the kings of Assyria until this day. 
33 Surely you have been fair in all that has happened to us. For you have been faithful, but we have done wickedly. 
34 For your law has not been kept neither by our kings, nor by our princes [leaders], nor by our priests, nor by our fathers. They have not paid attention to your commandments and to your warnings that you gave them [by the hand of your prophets]. 
35 For they have not served you in their kingdom, in the great and fertile land that you had given them. For you had shown them your great kindness, but they have not turned from their evil deeds. 
36 Behold we are servants this day. We are servants in the land that you had given to our fathers so that they might enjoy its fruits and its goodness. 
37 And the land yields its good produce for the kings whom you have set over us, because of our sins. These kings have dominion over our bodies and over our cattle at their pleasure, and we are in a great distress. These kings rule over our bodies and over our cattle according to their pleasure, and we are in a great distress. 
38 And we made a covenant on that day because of all these things, and wrote it down. And it has been sealed by our princes [leaders], and our Levites, and our priests.
