1 So the wall [of Jerusalem] was rebuilt and I did put the doors in the gates. And we appointed the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the Levites. 
2 Then I gave orders to Hanani my brother, and to Hananiah the commander of the palace of Jerusalem. For Hananiah was a faithful man, and he feared God more than many others. 
3 And I said to them: Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the heat of the sun. And during opening hours, let them shut the doors and put the bars when there is no need to open. And appoint guards among the inhabitants of Jerusalem, some to stand at strategic places and others to stand each in front of his house. 
4 Now the city was large and great, but it was sparsely populated, and the houses had not yet been built [just a few]. 
5 And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, to establish their genealogies. And I found a register of the genealogies of those who had come up first [from the captivity], and the following thing was written in it. 
6 These are the sons of the province who returned from the captivity, where Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away the captives. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each one to his city. 
7 Those who came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, and Nehemiah, and Azariah, and Raamiah, and Nahamani, and Mordecai, and Bilshan, and Mispereth, and Bigvai, and Nehum, and Baanah. 
8 And now this is the number of the men of the people of Israel. The sons of Parosh, two thousand and one hundred and seventy two. 
9 The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy two. 
10 The sons of Arah, six hundred and fifty two. 
11 The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen. 
12 The sons of Elam, one thousand and two hundred and fifty four. 
13 The sons of Zattu, eight hundred and forty five. 
14 The sons of Zacchai, seven hundred and sixty. 
15 The sons of Binnui, six hundred and forty eight. 
16 The sons of Bebai, six hundred and twenty eight. 
17 The sons of Azgad, two thousand and three hundred and twenty two. 
18 The sons of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty seven. 
19 The sons of Bigvai, two thousand and sixty seven. 
20 The sons of Adin, six hundred and fifty five. 
21 The sons of Ater, of the family of Hezekiah, ninety eight. 
22 The sons of Hashum, three hundred and twenty eight. 
23 The sons of Bezai, three hundred and twenty four. 
24 The sons of Hariph, one hundred and twelve. 
25 The sons of Gibeon, ninety five. 
26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, one hundred and eighty eight. 
27 The men of Anathoth, one hundred and twenty eight. 
28 The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty two. 
29 The men of Kiriath-jearim, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty three. 
30 The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty one. 
31 The men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty two. 
32 The men of Bethel and Ai, one hundred and twenty three. 
33 The men of the other Nebo, fifty two. 
34 The sons of the other Elam, one thousand and two hundred and fifty four. 
35 The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
36 The sons of Jericho, three hundred and forty five. 
37 The sons of Lod, and Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty one. 
38 The sons of Senaah, three thousand and nine hundred and thirty. 
39 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy three. 
40 The sons of Immer, one thousand and fifty two. 
41 The sons of Pashhur, one thousand and two hundred and forty seven. 
42 The sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen.
43 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel through the house of Hodevah, seventy four. 
44 The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred and forty eight.
45 The sons of the gatekeepers [of the temple of Yahweh]: the sons of Shallum, and the sons of Ater, and the sons of Talmon, and the sons of Akkub, and the sons of Hatita, and the sons of Shobai. All were one hundred and thirty eight.  
46 The Nethinim (who had a special function in the temple): the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth.
47 The sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon. 
48 The sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Salmai. 
49 The sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar. 
50 The sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda. 
51 The sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah. 
52 The sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephishesim. 
53 The sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur. 
54 The sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha. 
55 The sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah.
56 The sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha. 
57 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida. 
58 The sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel.
59 The sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Amon. 
60 All the Nethinim and the sons of Solomon's servants were three hundred and ninety two.
61 And now these are those who went from Tel-melah, and Tel-harsha, and Cherub, and Addon, and Immer, and who could not make known their genealogies and their tribes, to prove that they were of Israel.
62 The descendants of Delaiah, and the descendants of Tobiah, and the descendants of Nekoda, six hundred and forty two. 
63 And there were also some among the priests who could not prove their belonging to the family of the priests [for Aaron the brother of Moses was the first priest, and it is only a male child of a priest who is a priest]. There were the sons of Habaiah, and the sons of Hakkoz, and the sons of Barzillai [whoever had married one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite was called by their names and therefore designated as being a descendant of Barzillai]. 
64 These men sought their references in the genealogical records, but they were not found. Therefore these men were put out of the priesthood. 
65 And the governor commanded them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest had consulted with Urim and Thummim. 
66 And the whole congregation was made of forty two thousand and three hundred and sixty men. 
67 Besides their men-servants and their maid-servants who were seven thousand and three hundred and thirty seven. And there were also two hundred and forty five singers, both men and women. 
68 And they had seven hundred and thirty six horses, and two hundred and forty five mules.  
69 And four hundred and thirty five camels, and six thousand and seven hundred and twenty donkeys. 
70 And some of the chiefs of the fathers' houses gave gifts for the work [of the house of God]. The governor gave to the treasury one thousand darics of gold, and fifty cups, and five hundred and thirty garments of priests. 
71 And some of the chiefs of the fathers' houses gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pieces of silver. 
72 And the remaining of the people gave twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pieces of silver, and sixty seven garments of priests. 
73 And the priests, and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the Nethinians, they dwelt in their own cities, and all Israel dwelt in their own cities. And the seventh month came, and the children of Israel were in their cities.
