1 And the leaders of the people dwelt in Jerusalem. And the remaining of the people cast lots in order to bring one out of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and to make nine out of ten live in other cities. 
2 And the people blessed all those who voluntarily consented to dwell in Jerusalem. 
3 Now these are the leaders of the province who dwelt in Jerusalem. At that time each of the remaining of the people had received his own possession in all the other cities of Judah, namely Israel, and priests, and Levites, and the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon. 
4 And some of the sons [descendants] of Judah and of the sons of Benjamin dwelt in Jerusalem. Of the sons of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez. 
5 And Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite. 
6 All the sons of Perez who dwelt in Jerusalem were four hundred and sixty eight valiant men. 
7 And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah. 
8 And after him there were Gabbai, and Sallai, and others, nine hundred and twenty eight men. 
9 And Joel the son of Zichri was their leader, and Judah the son of Hassenuah was the second chief over the city. 
10 And of the classes of priests [according to a classification that had been made at the time of David]: Jedaiah, and Joiarib, and Jachin. 
11 Seraiah the son [a descendant] of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub who had been the chief of the house of God.  
12 And their brothers of other priestly families, for the service of the house [of God], eight hundred and twenty two men. And Adaiah the son [descendant] of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah. 
13 And his brothers the chiefs of the fathers' houses, two hundred and forty two men. And Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer. 
14 And their brothers, valiant men, one hundred and twenty eight men. And Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim was their leader. 
15 And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni. 
16 And Shabbethai and Jozabad were of the chiefs of the Levites and were in control of the external works of the house of God. 
17 And Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son [descendant] of Asaph. Mattaniah was the chief in order to lead the songs of praise and prayers. And Bakbukiah the second among his brothers. And Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. 
18 All the levites in the holy city were two hundred and eighty four. 
19 And the gatekeepers: Akkub, and Talmon, and their brothers who watched and guarded the gates, one hundred and seventy two. 
20 And the remaining of Israel, and of the priests, and of the Levites, they dwelt in all the cities of Judah, each one in what had become his inheritance.
21 And the Nethinim dwelt on the hill of Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa were over the Nethinim [their chiefs]. 
22 And the leader of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son Mica, of the sons [descendants] of Asaph. The descendants of Asaph were the singers for all the works of the house of God.
23 And there was a commandment of the king [of Persia] concerning them, that a certain portion should be given to the singers, for every day. 
24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was appointed by the king of Persia for all matters concerning the people. 
25 And some of the children of Judah dwelt in the following towns and in their fields: Kiriath-arba and its villages, and Dibon and its villages, and Jekabzeel and its villages. 
26 And Jeshua, and Moladah, and Beth-pelet. 
27 And Hazar-shual, and Beersheba and its villages. 
28 And Ziklag, and Meconah and its villages. 
29 And En-rimmon, and Zorah, and Jarmuth. 
30 And Zanoah, and Adullam, and their villages, and Lachish and its villages, and Azekah and its villages. So they dwelt from Beersheba to the valley of Hinnom. 
31 And the sons of Benjamin dwelt from Geba, in Michmash, and in Aija, and in Bethel, and in their villages. 
32 And in Anathoth, and in Nob, and in Ananiah. 
33 And in Hazor, and in Ramah, and in Gittaim. 
34 And in Hadid, and in Zeboim, and in Neballat. 
35 And in Lod, and in Ono, and in the valley of craftsmen. 
36 And there were the divisions of the Levites in Judah and in Benjamin.
