1 Now these are the priests [the names of the priests' families] and the Levites who returned with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and with Jeshua: Seraiah, and Jeremiah, and Ezra. 
2 And Amariah, and Malluch, and Hattush. 
3 And Shecaniah, and Rehum, and Meremoth. 
4 And Iddo, and Ginnethoi, and Abijah. 
5 And Mijamin, and Maadiah, and Bilgah. 
6 And Shemaiah, and Joiarib, and Jedaiah. 
7 And Sallu, and Amok, and Hilkiah, and Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua [the names of the main ancient families according to which the priests were identified. 
8 And the Levites: Jeshua, and Binnui, and Kadmiel, and Sherebiah, and Judah, and Mattaniah who led the songs of praise and prayers, he and his brothers. 
9 And their brothers Bakbukiah and Unno stood near them whenever they served. 
10 And Jeshua begat Joiakim, and Joiakim begat Eliashib, and Eliashib begat Joiada. 
11 And Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathan begat Jaddua. 
12 And these were the chiefs in the priests' families in the days of Joiakim: Meraiah for Seraiah. Hananiah for Jeremiah. 
13 Meshullam for Ezra. Jehohanan for Amariah. 
14 Jonathan for Malluchi. Joseph for Shebaniah. 
15 Adna for Harim. Helkai for Meraioth. 
16 Zechariah for Iddo. Meshullam for Ginnethon. 
17 Zichri for Abijah. Piltai for Miniamin and for Moadiah. 
18 Shammua for Bilgah. Jehonathan for Shemaiah. 
19 Mattenai for Joiarib. And Uzzi for Jedaiah. 
20 Kallai for Sallai. Eber for Amok. 
21 Hashabiah for Hilkiah. Nethanel for Jedaiah. 
22 In the days of Eliashib, and of Joiada, and of Johanan, and of Jaddua, the names of the leaders of the families of the Levites and the priests were written down during the reign of Darius the Persian. 
23 And the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the sons of Levi were written in the book of the Chronicles until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib. 
24 And the chiefs of the Levites were Hashabiah, and Sherebiah, and Jeshua, and Binnui, and Kadmiel, and their brothers stood across from them to praise and to give thanks according to the commandment of David the man of God. 
25 And the [chiefs of the] gatekeepers who watched the thresholds of the gates were Mattaniah [another with the same name], and Bakbukiah, and Obadiah, and Meshullam, and Talmon, and Akkub. 
26 They served in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest and scribe. 
27 And when the walls of Jerusalem were dedicated, they called the Levites from all their places and brought them to Jerusalem. And all the people joyfully celebrated the dedication with thanksgivings and songs, with cymbals and psalteries and harps. 
28 For the singers had gathered themselves together from the regions around Jerusalem, and from the villages of the Netophathites. 
29 And from Beth-gilgal, and from the region of Geba and Azmaveth. For the singers had built villages all around Jerusalem. 
30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall. 
31 And I brought up the princes [leaders] of Judah to the wall, and appointed two great companies to give thanks, and one of them went on the right hand of the wall toward the gate of dung. 
32 And they were followed by Hoshaiah, and half of the princes [leaders] of Judah. 
33 And also Azariah, and Ezra, and Meshullam. 
34 And Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah. 
35 And there were also some of the sons of the priests with trumpets. Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son [descendant] of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph. 
36 And his brothers Shemaiah, and Azarel, and Milalai, and Gilalai, and Maai, and Nethanel, and Judah, and Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them. 
37 And at the fountain gate which was opposite them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall, above the house of David, to the water gate eastward. 
38 The second group of singers went on the opposite side. And I was behind them with the other half of the people on the wall, from beyond the tower of the furnaces to the broad wall. 
39 And we went to the gate of Ephraim, and to the old gate, and to the fish gate, and to the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, and to the sheep gate. And they stopped at the gate of the guard. 
40 Then the two companies of singers went and stood in the house of God (in the courtyards of the temple). And we did likewise, I and the half of the rulers who were with me. 
41 And also the priests Eliakim, and Maaseiah, and Miniamin, and Micaiah, and Elioenai, and Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets. 
42 And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang aloud, and Jezrahiah was their leader. 
43 And they offered many sacrifices in that day, and rejoiced. For God had given great joy to the people, and also the women and the children rejoiced. And the joyful shout of Jerusalem was heard far away. 
44 And on that day they appointed men to oversee the storerooms for the offerings, the offerings of the firstfruits and the tithes. And their duty was to collect it from the fields of the cities, to obtain the portions required by the law for the priests and the Levites. For Judah rejoiced for the priests and the Levites because of their service.
45 And both the singers and the gatekeepers performed their duty to their God and their duty during the purifications [what they had to do in particular whenever the priests performed the rituals], according to the commandment of David and of his son Solomon [It was David and his prophets who created the role of singer in order to occupy some of the Levites]. 
46 For in the days of David in the past, Asaph had been a chief of the singers and had made songs of praise and of thanksgiving to God. 
47 And in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, all Israel gave the portions of the singers and of the gatekeepers, day by day, and they gave the holy things to the other Levites [as required by the law of Moses], and the Levites gave a part of those holy things to the sons of Aaron [as required by the law of Moses].
