1 Afterward there arose a great complaint from the people and their wives against their brothers the Jews. 
2 For some said: We with our sons and our daughters are many. Therefore we must take more grain for us in order to eat and live. 
3 And others said: We are mortgaging our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses, in order to have grain in this time of famine. 
4 And others said: We have borrowed money on our fields and vineyards for the king's tribute. 
5 And now our flesh is like the flesh of our brothers, and our children like their children. And lo, we will have to bring our sons and our daughters into bondage by making them servants, and some of our daughters are already brought into bondage. And we are powerless, because our fields and our vineyards belong to others. 
6 And I was very angry when I heard these words of their complaints. 
7 And I resolved to rebuke the nobles and the rulers, and I said to them: You lend at interest to your brothers.  
8 And I gathered a great crowd around them, and I said to them: According to our ability, we have redeemed our brothers the Jews who were sold to the nations. How can you sell your brothers. Should they become our servants. 
9 Then they held their peace, finding nothing to answer. And I said: What you are doing is not good. Should you not walk in the fear of our God in order to avoid the insults from our enemies who are the nations. 
10 For I, and my brothers and my servants, we have also lent them money and grain. And now let us abandon what they owe us, I pray you. 
11 I pray you to restore to them this day their fields, and their vineyards, and their oliveyards, and their houses. And also the hundredth part of the money, and of the corn, and of the wine, and of the oil, which you exacted from them as interest. 
12 And they answered, We will restore it and we will not demand anything from them. We will do as you have said. 
13 Then I called the priests, and made them swear before the priests that they would do according to this promise. And I also shook my lap, and said: May God shake thus out of his house and out of his work each one who will not fulfill this promise. May he be shaken out thus and emptied. 
14 And all the assembly said Amen, and they praised Yahweh. And the people did according to this promise. It must be known that since the day that the king made me governor over them in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year to the thirty second year of king Artaxerxes, a period of twelve years, neither I nor my brothers have eaten of the governor's remuneration [what the people had a duty to give to the governor]. 
15 For the former governors who were before me had oppressed the people. The governors had taken from them bread and wine, besides forty shekels of silver. And the leaders under these governors had also oppressed the people. But I have not done so, because of the fear of God. 
16 Moreover, I have worked on repairing this wall with all my servants, and we did not take any land from anyone. 
17 And I usually had one hundred and fifty men of the Jews of Judah at my table, besides those who came to us from the surrounding nations. 
18 And they prepared for me every day an ox, and six chosen sheep, and birds. And every ten days they prepared in abundance all kinds of wine. Yet I did not request the salary of the governor for all this, because the bondage was heavy on this people. 
19 Remember me for the good deeds, O my God, according to all that I have done for this people.
