1 On that day they did read in the book of Moses in the audience of the people, and it was found written that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the assembly of God forever. 
2 For they had not come to meet the children of Israel with bread and water, but they had hired Balaam against them to curse them. And our God turned the curse into a blessing. 
3 Now when the people had heard [this part of] the law, they separated the whole mixed multitude from Israel. 
4 But before that happened, there arose Eliashib the priest who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God and who was a relative of Tobiah [connected by marriage]. 
5 And Eliashib had prepared for Tobiah a great chamber where they had previously put the meal offerings, and the incense, and the utensils, and the tithe of the grain, and of wine, and of oil. So there had been those things that were given for the Levites, and for the singers, and for the gatekeepers, and also the offerings given for the priests. 
6 And I was not in Jerusalem while this thing happened. For I had returned to the king of Babylon in the thirty second year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon. And later I asked a permission from the king to return to Jerusalem. 
7 And when I returned to Jerusalem, I saw the evil that Eliashib had done in preparing a chamber for Tobiah in the temple of God. 
8 And that saddened me deeply. Therefore I threw out of the chamber all the things that belonged to Tobiah. 
9 And I commanded to clean the chamber, and I brought back there the utensils of the house of God, and the offerings and the incense. 
10 And I heard also that the portions of the Levites had not been given, and that the Levites and the singers who did the service had fled each one to his own field. 
11 Then I rebuked the rulers and said, Why has the house of God been forsaken. And I assembled the Levites and the singers together, and set them in their places. 
12 Then all [the land of] Judah brought into the treasuries the tithe of the grain, and of the wine, and of the oil.
13 And I appointed treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah from among the Levites. And next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah. For they had a reputation of being faithful, and their office was to distribute the goods to their brothers. 
14 Remember me, O my God, concerning this thing that I have done. Do not forget my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for its services. 
15 In those days I saw in Judah some men treading wine presses on the sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and loading donkeys with wine, and with grapes, and with figs, and with all kinds of things, and bringing them to Jerusalem on the sabbath day. And I gave them warning about the days on which they should sell their goods. 
16 And there were people from Tyre who lived in Jerusalem and brought fish and all kinds of goods to sell to the children of Judah in Jerusalem on the sabbath.
17 And I rebuked the nobles of Judah and said to them: What is this evil that you are doing by profaning the sabbath day. 
18 Is it not the same thing that your fathers did, and has not our God brought all this evil on us and on this city. And you want again to increase the anger on Israel by profaning the sabbath. 
19 Then I commanded that the gates of Jerusalem be shut before each sabbath when the day begins to darken, and not be opened until after the sabbath. And I set some of my servants at the gates in order to prevent that something be brought to Jerusalem on the sabbath day.
20 So it happened once or twice that traders and sellers of all kinds of goods were prevented from entering Jerusalem and spent at least a whole night there. 
21 And I warned them by saying: 'Why do you stay in front of the wall during all the night. If you do it again then I will lay my hands on you'. And from that time on they came no more on the sabbath day. 
22 And I also commanded the Levites to purify themselves in order to come and keep the gates and thus sanctify the sabbath. Remember me for this thing, O my God, and forgive me according to your great mercy. 
23 In those days I also saw Jews who had married women of Ashdod, and of Ammon, and of Moab. 
24 And half of their children spoke the language of those foreign land, and did not know how to speak the Jewish language. They knew only the language of this or that foreign people. 
25 Therefore I rebuked them and cursed them, and smote some of them, and pulled their hair, and made them swear by God and said: You will neither give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves. 
26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things. For there was no king like him among the multitude of nations, and he was beloved of his God, and God made him king over all Israel. But his foreign wives caused him to sin. 
27 Should we allow you to commit such a great evil. Should we allow the evil influence of these foreign women to cause you to transgress against our God. 
28 And one of the sons of Joiada the son of Eliashib the high priest was a son in law to Sanballat the Horonite [the same one who had tried several times to prevent us from building the walls of Jerusalem]. Therefore I chased him far from me. 
29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priests and the Levites. 
30 Then I cleansed them from every foreigner, and I restored the duties of the priests and the Levites, each one in his office. 
31 And for the offerings of wood at the appointed times, and for the firstfruits, remember me for all these good things required by your law given to Moses, O my God.
32 [God remembers that Nehemiah was willing to obey the commandments that he knew during his days, and we all must do thus with what we know today about God's identity. We must not seek to understand the exact intentions of God in any situation but only obey him with a devoted heart.]
