1 Now these are those who sealed it: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, and Zedekiah. 
2 And Seraiah, and Azariah, and Jeremiah. 
3 And Pashhur, and Amariah, and Malchijah. 
4 And Hattush, and Shebaniah, and Malluch. 
5 And Harim, and Meremoth, nd Obadiah. 
6 And Daniel, and Ginnethon, and Baruch. 
7 And Meshullam, and Abijah, and Mijamin. 
8 And Maaziah, and Bilgai, and Shemaiah. These are the priests. 
9 And the Levites: Jeshua the son of Azaniah, and Binnui of the sons of Henadad, and Kadmiel. 
10 And their brothers Shebaniah, and Hodiah, and Kelita, and Pelaiah, and Hanan. 
11 And Micah, and Rehob, and Hashabiah. 
12 And Zaccur, and Sherebiah, and Shebaniah. 
13 And Hodiah, and Bani, and Beninu. 
14 The chiefs of the people: Parosh, and Pahath-moab, and Elam, and Zattu, and Bani. 
15 And Bunni, and Azgad, and Bebai. 
16 And Adonijah, and Bigvai, and Adin. 
17 And Ater, and Hezekiah, and Azzur. 
18 And Hodiah, and Hashum, and Bezai. 
19 And Hariph, and Anathoth, and Nobai. 
20 And Magpiash, and Meshullam, and Hezir. 
21 And Meshezabel, and Zadok, and Jaddua. 
22 And Pelatiah, and Hanan, and Anaiah. 
23 And Hoshea, and Hananiah, and Hasshub. 
24 And Hallohesh, and Pilha, and Shobek. 
25 And Rehum, and Hashabnah, and Maaseiah. 
26 And Ahiah, and Hanan, and Anan. 
27 And Malluch, and Harim, and Baanah. 
28 And after that, there arose the remaining of the people. The [other] the priests, and the [other] Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the Nethinim, and all those who had separated themselves from the foreign peoples in order to follow the law of God, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, all those who were able to understand the law. 
29 And they joined their brothers and their leader, and entered the curse and the oath. And they promised to walk in the law of God given by Moses the servant of God, to observe and to do all the commandments of Yahweh our Lord, and his judgments and his statutes. 
30 And we promised not to give our daughters to the peoples of the land, and not to take their daughters for our sons. 
31 And we promised that if the peoples of the lands brought wares or any food on the sabbath to sell, then we would not buy anything from them on the sabbath and also on the other holy days. And that we would apply the law concerning each seventh year, by not claiming any debt from our brothers. 
32 And we also made a new ordinances for ourselves, to give one third of a shekel each year for the service of the house of our God. 
33 It was to be used for the showbreads, and for the daily meal offering, and for the daily burnt offering, and for the offerings of the sabbaths, and of the new moons [the beginnings of the months], and of the feasts established by the law. And also for holy things [the renovations of the utensils of the temple], and for the sin offerings to make an atonement for Israel [whenever an involuntary transgression of the whole people is observed], and for all the work of the house of our God. 
34 And we cast lots, the priests, and the Levites, and the people, for the offerings of the wood. For we had decided to bring wood each year into the house of our God, according to our fathers' houses and at the times that we appointed for each of them, so that there is always wood available to be burned on the altar [in order to do the offerings] as it is written.  
35 And we promised to bring every year to the house of Yahweh the firstfruits of our land, and the firstfruits of all the fruit of all the trees. 
36 And we promised to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God, the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle as it is written in the law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks. 
37 And we promised to bring to the priests other things which were to be put into the store rooms of the house of our God. The firstfruits of our dough, and our [freewill] offerings, and the fruit of all trees, of the new wine and of the oil. And also to give the tithes of our land to the Levites, and they were to collect it in all the towns where we work. 
38 And the priest the son of Aaron [who is designated for a particular area] will be with the Levites when the Levites take the tithes. And the Levites will bring the tithe of the tithe [the tenth part of the tithes] into the house of our God, into the rooms set apart to be treasure-house. 
39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi will bring into those rooms the offerings of the grain, and of the new wine, and of the oil. And there will be the utensils of the sanctuary, and the priests who minister, and the gatekeepers, and the singers. And thus we will not forsake the house of our God.
