1 Now in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of king Artaxerxes, I took the wine from before the king and gave it to him while being sad in his presence. Now I had never appeared sad in his presence. 
2 And the king said to me: Why is your countenance sad. You are not sick therefore it can only be a sorrow of heart. 
3 And then I was seized with a great fear, and I said to the king: May God save the king forever. How can my countenance not be sad while the city of the sepulchers of my fathers is in bad condition and its gates are consumed with fire. 
4 And the king said to me: What is your request. 
5 Then I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said to the king: If it pleases the king, and if your servant have found favor in your sight, I desire that you send me to Jerusalem in Judah, the city of the sepulchers of my fathers, in order to rebuild it. 
6 And the queen was sitting near the king, and he said to me: How long will your journey be, and when will you be back. 
7 So it pleased the king, and he send me, and I set him a time. Then I said to the king: If it pleases the king, let letters be given to me for the governors who are beyond the river Euphrates, so that they may let me pass through until I come into Judah. 
8 And also a letter to Asaph the king's forester, so that he may give me timber to build the gates of the palace near the house of Yahweh, and the wall of the city, and my own house where I will dwell. 
9 And king gave me these letters, according to the good hand of my God that was on me. And I went to the governors on the other side of the river Euphrates, and gave them the king's letters. And the king had sent some captains of the army and horsemen with me. 
10 And when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah an Ammonite servant heard it, they were exceedingly grieved by the fact that a man had come to seek the prosperity of the children of Israel. 
11 So I came to Jerusalem and stayed there three days. 
12 And then I got up during the night, I and a small number of men with me, without telling anyone what my God had put in my heart to do for Jerusalem. And there was no beast of burden with me, except my own the beast on which I rode. 
13 And I went out by night through the gate of the valley, and I came before the well of the dragon and at the gate of dung. And I looked at the wall of Jerusalem and saw how they were broken down, and how its gates were consumed with fire. 
14 Then I went to the gate of the fountain, and to the king's pool. But there was no place for my horse to pass. 
15 Then I went up by night by the brook, and looked again at the wall. Then I went back by the gate of the valley, and so I returned. 
16 And the rulers did not know where I had gone nor what I had done. For I had told it neither to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to any of those who could enter this matter. 
17 Afterward I said to them: You see our misery. Jerusalem is destroyed, and its gates are consumed with fire. Come and let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem so as not to be ashamed anymore. 
18 Then I told them how the good hand of my God had been on me, and what words the king had spoken to me. And they said, Let us arise and build. So they strengthened themselves for their good purpose. 
19 And when Sanballat the Horonite heard it, and also Tobiah an Ammonite servant and Geshem the Arabian, they mocked us, and despised us, and said: What are you doing. Are you rebelling against the king. 
20 Then I answered them by saying: The God of heaven will grant us success, for we his servants will arise and build. But as for you, you have in Jerusalem no portion, nor right, nor memorial.
