1 But when Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, he was angry and very grieved, and he mocked the Jews. 
2 And he spoke before his brothers and before the army of Samaria, and said: What are these weak Jews doing. Will they be allowed to do it. Will they offer sacrifices [to celebrate the end of this work]. Will they finish building in one day. Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, seeing that they are burned. 
3 And Tobiah the Ammonite was near him, and he said: Although they build, their work will be of poor quality because a fox climbing on it would be enough to collapse their stone wall. 
4 And I prayed and said: O our God, hear how we are despised. Return their insults on their own heads, and make them shameful prey in a land of captivity. 
5 Do not forgive their iniquity, and do not let their sin be blotted out from before you. For they have insulted and discouraged the builders. 
6 So we rebuilt the wall, and it was completed to half its height, and the people were eager to do a good work. 
7 And when our enemies had heard that the walls of Jerusalem were repaired, when the breaches began to be stopped, they were very angry. They were Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites. 
8 And they conspired all together to come and attack Jerusalem and to do it harm. 
9 Then we prayed to our God, and we set up a watch day and night to defend ourselves against their attacks. 
10 And [the representatives of the Jews of] Judah said: The strength of the bearers of burdens is weakened, and the ruins are great. We will not be able to complete the wall. 
11 And our enemies had said: They will not know nor see, until we come among them and kill them, and thus cause their work to cease. 
12 But the Jews living among our enemies came to us ten times, and they informed us of all the places from where the enemy planned to attack us. 
13 Therefore I placed some of the people behind the lowest parts of the wall, and near the holes. I placed them by families and they had their swords, and their spears, and their bows. 
14 And I looked, and stood to speak to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the remaining of the people. And I said: Do not be afraid of them, for you must remember the Lord who is great and terrible. Fight for your brothers, and for your sons, and for your daughters, and for your wives, and for your houses. 
15 And when our enemies heard that we had been warned of how they were going to proceed, then God brought their counsel to nought. So we all started building the wall again, each was doing his work. 
16 But from that day on, half of the men did the labor while the other half were armed with spears, and with shields, and with bows, and with coats of mail. And the rulers stood behind all the house of Judah. 
17 And concerning the builders of the wall and those who carried burdens, each worked with one hand and held a sword with the other. 
18 For each of them had his sword girded on his waist while working. And the one appointed to sound the trumpet stood near me. 
19 And I said to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the remaining of the people: The work is great and extensive, and we are scattered along the wall, one far from another. 
20 Therefore if you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you will gather to us at the place from which the sound that you heard will have been emitted. And our God will fight for us. 
21 So we did the work, and half of the men were holding the spears from the rising of the morning until the stars appeared. 
22 At that time I said to the people: Let each one spend the night in Jerusalem with his servant. And thus we will keep watch by night, and we will work by day. 
23 So we did not take off our clothes, neither I nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the guard who followed me. Except that each one took them off when he washed himself.
