1 Then Eliashib the high priest arose with his brothers the priests, and they built the sheep gate. They repaired it and set up its doors. They repaired it to from the tower of Meah to the tower of Hananeel. 
2 And the men of Jericho built the section of the wall next to Eliashib, and the next section of the wall was built by Zaccur the son of Imri. 
3 And the sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate. And they covered it with timber and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. 
4 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Meshullam the son of Berechiah the son of Meshezabel. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Zadok the son of Baana. 
5 And the next section of the wall was repaired by the men from Tekoa, but the nobles of Tekoa refused to work for their leader Nehemiah. 
6 And Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the old gate. And they covered it with timber and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. 
7 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, and men of Gibeon, and men of Mizpah which belonged to the throne of the governor who is beyond the river. 
8 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Uzziel the son of Harhaiah one of the goldsmiths. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Hananiah one of the perfumers. And they fortified Jerusalem as far as the broad wall. 
9 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of a half of the district of Jerusalem. 
10 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, opposite his house. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Hattush the son of Hashabneiah. 
11 Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab repaired another part of the wall, and the tower of the furnaces. 
12 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of a half of the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters. 
13 And Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the gate of the valley. They built it, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. They made a thousand cubits of wall as far as to the gate of dung. 
14 And Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth-haccherem, repaired the gate of dung. He built it, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. 
15 And Shallum the son of Col-hozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the gate of the fountain. He built it, and covered it, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. He also made the wall of the pool of Shelah which is near the king's garden, as far as to the steps that go down from the city of David. 
16 And next to him there was Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of a half of the district of Beth-zur, who repaired the wall as far as the place opposite the sepulchers [of the sons] of David, as far as the pool that was built, and as far as the house of heroes. 
17 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Rehum the son of Bani and other Levites. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Hashabiah the ruler of a half of the district of Keilah, for his district. 
18 And the next section of the wall was repaired by their brothers. And the leader was Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of a half of the district of Keilah. 
19 And Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section of the wall opposite the ascent to the corner of the armory. 
20 And Baruch the son of Zabbai repaired diligently another section of the wall, from the corner to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest. 
21 And Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz repaired another section from the gate of the house of Eliashib to the end of the house of Eliashib.
22 The next section of wall was repaired by the priests who lived in the plain. 
23 And Benjamin and Hasshub repaired the section of the wall opposite their house. And Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah repaired the section of the wall near his house. 
24 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Binnui the son of Henadad, from the house of Azariah to the turning of the wall and to the corner. 
25 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Palal the son of Uzai, from the turning of the wall to the high tower which is near the king's house, near the court of the prison. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Pedaiah the son of Parosh. 
26 And the Nethinim dwelt in Ophel, and repaired the wall as far as opposite the water gate on the east, and to the tower that stand there. 
27 And the next section of the wall was repaired by the Tekoites, from opposite the tower stand there to the wall of Ophel. 
28 And the priests repaired the wall above the gate of horse, each one in front of his house. 
29 And Zadok the son of Immer repaired the section of the wall in front of his house. And the next section of the wall was repaired by Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate. 
30 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph. And Meshullam the son of Berechiah repaired the section of the wall in front of his house. 
31 And the next section of the wall was repaired by Malchijah one of the goldsmiths, and he worked as far as the house of the Nethinims, and of the merchants, opposite the gate of Miphkad, and as far as the house of the corner of the wall. 
32 And the goldsmiths and the merchants repaired the section of the wall between the house of the corner and the sheep gate.
