1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. In the month of Chislev, in the twentieth year [of king Artaxerxes], while I was in the palace of Shushan. 
2 Hanani who is one of my brothers came to me with some other men of Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who had come from the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. 
3 And they said to me: The remnant who had come from the captivity are there in the province, in great affliction and in reproach. And the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are burned with fire. 
4 And when I heard these words, I sat down and wept, and was desolate for many days. And I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven with the following words. 
5 O Yahweh the God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps his covenant and mercy with those who love him and keep his commandments. 
6 Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open, and hear the prayer that your servant prays to you daily, day and night, for your servants the children of Israel. I confess the sins of the children of Israel, our sins against you, because I and my father's house have sinned. 
7 We have grievously sinned against you, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments, which you commanded to your servant Moses. 
8 I beseech you to remember the word that you spoke to your servant Moses by saying: If you transgress then I will scatter you among the peoples. 
9 But if you return to me and keep my commandments, and do them, then although your outcasts may have been sent to the outermost part of the heaven, I will gather you from there and bring you back to the place that I have chosen to put my name there. 
10 Now they are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your mighty hand. 
11 O Lord, I beseech you, let your ear be attentive now to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants who desire to fear your name. I pray you to cause your servant to prosper in the undertaking that he begin today, by giving him favor in the sight of this man [the king of Persia]. Now I was the king's cupbearer at that time.
