1 Then all the people gathered together in the street that was before the water gate. And they spoke to Ezra so that he might bring the book of the law of Moses which Yahweh had commanded to Israel. 
2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly made up of all those who were able to hear it, both men and women. It was on the first day of the seventh month. 
3 And Ezra [with his assistants] did read in the book from the morning until the middle of the day, in the street that was before the water gate. There was all those who were able to hear it, both men and women, and all the people gave attention to the reading of the book of the law. 
4 And Ezra the scribe stood on a pulpit of wood that they had made for this occasion. And beside him, on his right hand, there were Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Uriah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah. And on his left hand there were Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchijah, and Hashum, and Hashbaddanah, and Zechariah, and Meshullam. 
5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up and did not move. 
6 And Ezra blessed Yahweh the great God. And all the people raised their hands and answered, Amen, amen. And they bowed themselves and worshiped Yahweh with their face against the ground. 
7 And there were some of the Levites who explained the law to the people while the people were standing each one at his place. Those Levites were Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, and Jamin, and Akkub, and Shabbethai, and Hodiah, and Maaseiah, and Kelita, And Azariah, and Jozabad, and Hanan, and Pelaiah. 
8 They distinctly read in the book of the law of God, and they gave the meaning to clarify what they had read. [Each of them read a part of the book] 
9 Then Nehemiah the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, they spoke to all the people and said: This day is holy to Yahweh your God. Do not be sad and do not weep. 
10 For all the people were weeping when they heard the words of the law. And they said to the people: Go and eat good food, and drink soft liqueurs, and send portions to those who have nothing prepared, because this day is holy to our Lord. Do not afflict yourself, because the joy of Yahweh is your strength. 
11 And the Levites calmed the people in every part of the crowd by saying: Hold your peace, because this day is holy. Do not afflict yourself. 
12 And all the people went their way in order to eat and drink, and to send portions, and to rejoice. For they had understood the words that had been explained to them. 
13 And on the second day, the chiefs of the fathers' houses of all the people assembled to Ezra the scribe, with the priests and the Levites, in order to hear more explanations from Ezra concerning the words of the law. 
14 And they found written in the law, which Yahweh had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in tents during the feast of the seventh month. 
15 And [they understood] that they should make this proclamation in all their cities and in Jerusalem: Go in the mountain and bring olive branches, and wild olive branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, in order to make booths as it is written. 
16 So the people went to look for tree branches and they made booths, each one on the roof of his houses, in their yards, and in the courtyards of the house of God, and in the street near the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim.
17 And the whole assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths, and sat under the booths. And there was very great gladness, because the children of Israel had not done so [all together] since the days of Joshua the son of Nun until that day. 
18 And Ezra did read in the book of the law of God every day, from the first day until the last day, and they celebrated the feast for seven days. And there was a solemn assembly on the eighth day, according to the manner [the ordinance of the law].
