1 And Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the remaining of our enemies, they heard that I had rebuilt the wall and that there was no breach left in it. At that time I had not yet put the doors in the gates. 
2 Then Sanballat and Geshem planned to do me harm, and sent messengers to me to say: Come, and let us meet together in one of the villages of the valley of Ono. 
3 And I sent messengers to them with this answer: I have a great work to do, and I cannot come down. Why should I interrupt the work for the sole purpose of coming down and meeting you. 
4 And they sent me the same request four times, and I gave them the same answer. 
5 And when Sanballat sent me his servant for the fifth time, there was an open letter in his hand. 
6 And it contained the following words: It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu has confirmed it, that you and the Jews are thinking of rebelling. It is said that you have build the wall for this purpose, and that you are going to become their king. 
7 And it is also said that you have appointed prophets to preach about yourself in Jerusalem and to say, There is a king in Judah. And now these words will be brought to the knowledge of the king of Persia. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together. 
8 Then I sent to Sanballat by saying: What you are saying is not true. You have invented it. 
9 Strengthen me now, O God. For they just want to scare us, and they have said to themselves: Their hands will be weakened in the work, and it will not be done. 
10 Then I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel. He had shut himself in, and he said: Let us go together into the house of God, inside the holy place of the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple, because they will come to kill you. Yes, it is in the night that they will come to kill you. 
11 But I answered to Shemaiah: Should a man like me run away. And an ordinary Jew like me cannot enter the holy place of the temple without being guilty before Yahweh [I am not from the Levi tribe]. I will not go there. 
12 And lo, I knew that God had not sent him and that he had announced this prophecy against me because Sanballat and Tobiah had hired him. 
13 So they had hired him in order to make me afraid, in the hope that I would follow his advice and commit a sin. And thus they could have done an evil report to shame me. 
14 My God, remember Tobiah and Sanballat according to their works. And remember also Noadiah the prophetess [the woman prophet], and the other prophets who tried to scare me. 
15 And the wall [of Jerusalem] was completed on the twenty fifth day of the month of Elul, and the work had been done in fifty two days. [Now this may only be the duration of the work, which does not include all the time for preparing and transporting materials to the construction site.]
16 And when all our enemies heard of it, namely all the nations that were around us, they were afraid and they had no more courage to seek to hurt us. For they knew that this work had been accomplished by our God. 
17 And in those days there were many of the nobles of Judah who wrote letters to Tobiah and received letters from him. 
18 For many people in Judah were bonded to him by an oath, because he was the son in law of Shecaniah the son of Arah, and his son Jehohanan had married the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah. 
19 They also spoke of his good deeds before me, and they reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to scare me.
