1 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Zin in the first month. And the people stopped at Kadesh. This is where Miriam died and was buried. 
2 There was no water for the assembly, and they rose up against Moses and Aaron. 
3 And the people quarreled with Moses and said, Why was it not God's pleasure to let us perish while our brothers died before Yahweh. 
4 Why have you brought the congregation of Yahweh into this wilderness so that we and our cattle should die here. 
5 Why have you made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us into this miserable place. It is not a place where one can sow, and there is no fig tree, nor vine, nor pomegranate tree. Neither is there any water to drink. 
6 Then Moses and Aaron went away from the assembly to the door of the tent of meeting, and fell on their faces. And the glory of Yahweh appeared to them. 
7 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
8 Take the rod and gather the congregation together, you and your brother Aaron. And you will speak to the rock in their presence, and it will give its waters. And you will bring them water out of the rock, and give the congregation and their beasts drink. 
9 Then Moses took the rod from before Yahweh, as he had commanded him. 
10 And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock. And Moses said to them: Listen now, you rebels. Will we bring you water out of this rock. 
11 Then Moses raised his hand and smote the rock twice with his rod. And the water came out abundantly, and the congregation and their beasts drank. 
12 And Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron: Because you did not believe in me, to sanctify me in the sight of the children of Israel, you will not bring this congregation into the land that I have given them. 
13 This is the water of Meribah which means water of protest, because the children of Israel contended with Yahweh and he was sanctified in them. 
14 And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom and said, Thus says your brother Israel: You know all the suffering we have experienced. 
15 And how our fathers went to Egypt, and we stayed there for a long time where the Egyptians mistreated us and our fathers. 
16 And we cried to Yahweh. And he heard our voice and sent an angel, and has brought us out of Egypt. Behold we are in Kadesh, a city at the end of your territory. 
17 I pray you to let us pass through your land. We will not go through the fields nor the vineyards. Neither will we drink the water of the wells. But we will follow the king’s highway without turning right or left, until we have passed your land. 
18 And Edom answered him: You will not pass by me, otherwise I will come out to meet you with the sword. 
19 And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go simply by the highway. And if I or my cattle drink of your water, then I will pay for it. I will only pass with my feet, and nothing else. 
20 And he answered again, You will not pass. And Edom went out to meet him with a large number of people and a strong hand. 
21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his territory. And Israel turned away from him. 
22 Then all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from Kadesh and came to the mountain of Hor. 
23 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words at the mount Hor, near the border of the land of Edom. 
24 Aaron will be gathered to his people. For he will not enter the land that I have given to the children of Israel, because you have rebelled against my commandment at the water of Meribah. 
25 Take Aaron and his son Eleazar, and bring them up into the mount Hor. 
26 And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son. For Aaron will die there and will be gathered to his fathers. 
27 And Moses did as Yahweh commanded. And they went up to the mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation. 
28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them on his son Eleazar. And Aaron died there on the top of the mountain. And Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain. 
29 And all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, and all the house of Israel mourned for Aaron thirty days.
