1 After this plague, Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest in the following words. 
2 Number all the congregation of the children of Israel, from the age of twenty and upward, according to the houses of their fathers, of all those able to go to war in Israel. 
3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke to them in the plain of Moab, by the Jordan opposite Jericho, in the following words. 
4 You will number the people from twenty years old and upward, as Yahweh commanded Moses and the children of Israel when they came out of the land of Egypt. 
5 Ruben the firstborn of Israel. The children of Ruben were Hanoch from whom came the family of the Hanochites, and Pallu from whom came the family of the Palluites. 
6 And Hezron from whom the family of the Hezronites, and Carmi from whom came the family of the Carmites. 
7 These are the families of the Rubenites, and those from them who were numbered were forty three thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
8 And the son of Pallu, Eliab. 
9 And the sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. It is this Dathan and this Abiram who were famous in the congregation, and who rose up against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah during their rebellion against Yahweh. 
10 And the earth opened its mouth and engulfed them with Korah when those of that company died. At that time the fire consumed the two hundred and fifty men who became a sign. 
11 But the sons of Korah did not die. 
12 And the children of Simeon according to their families: Nemuel from whom came the family of the Nemuelites, and Jamin from whom came the family of the Jaminites, and Jachin from whom came the family of the Jachinites. 
13 And Zerah from whom came the family of the Zerahites, and Shaul from whom came the family of the Shaulites. 
14 These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty two thousand and two hundred. 
15 The sons of Gad according to their families: Zephon from whom came the family of the Zephonites, and Haggi from whom came the family of the Haggites, and Shuni from whom came the family of the Shunites. 
16 And Ozni from whom came the family of the Oznites, and Eri from whom came the family of the Erites. 
17 And Arod from whom came the family of the Arodites, and Areli from whom came the family of the Arelites. 
18 These are the families of the sons of Gad according to the number of those who were counted, forty thousand and five hundred. 
19 The sons of Judah, Er and Onan. But Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
20 These are the sons of Judah according to their families: Shelah from whom came the family of the Shelanites, and Perez from whom came the family of the Perezites, and Zerah from whom came the family of the Zerahites. 
21 And the sons of Perez were: Hezron from whom came the family of the Hezronites, and Hamul from whom came the family of the Hamulites. 
22 These are the families of Judah according to the number of those who were counted, seventy six thousand and five hundred. 
23 The sons of Issachar according to their families: Tola from whom came the family of the Tolaites, and Puvah from whom came the family of the Punites. 
24 And Jashub from whom came the family of the Jashubites, and Shimron from whom came the family of the Shimronites. 
25 These are the families of Issachar according to the number of those who were counted, sixty four thousand and three hundred. 
26 The sons of Zebulun according to their families: Sered from whom came the family of the Seredites, and Elon from whom came the family of the Elonites, and Jahleel from whom came the family of the Jahleelites. 
27 These are the families of the Zebulonites according to the number of those who were counted, sixty thousand and five hundred. 
28 The sons of Joseph according to their families: Manasseh and Ephraim. 
29 The sons of Manasseh: Machir from whom came the family of the Machirites. And Machir begat Gilead, and from Gilead came the family of the Gileadites. 
30 These are the sons of Gilead: Iezer from whom came the family of the Iezerites, and Helek from whom came the family of the Helekites. 
31 And Asriel from whom came the family of the Asrielites, and Shechem from whom came the family of the Shechemites. 
32 And Shemida from whom came the family of the Shemidaites, and Hepher from whom came the family of the Hepherites. 
33 And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons but he had daughters. These are the names of Zelophehad's daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
34 These are the families of Manasseh according to the number of those who were counted, fifty two thousand and seven hundred. 
35 These are the sons of Ephraim according to their families: Shuthelah from whom came the family of the Shuthelahites, and Becher from whom came the family of the Becherites, and Tahan from whom came the family of the Tahanites. 
36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: Eran from whom came the family of the Eranites. 
37 These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to the number of those who were counted, thirty two thousand and five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph according to their families. 
38 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families: Bela from whom came the family of the Balaites, and Ashbel from whom came the family of the Ashbelites, and Ahiram from whom came the family of the Ahiramites. 
39 And Shephupham from whom came the family of the Shuphamites, and Hupham from whom came the family of the Huphamites. 
40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman. And from Ard came the family of the Ardites, and from Naaman came the family of the Naamites. 
41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families and according to the number of those who were counted, forty five thousand and six hundred. 
42 These are the sons of Dan according to their families: Shuham from whom came the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families. 
43 All the families of the Shuhamites according to the number of those who were counted, sixty four thousand and four hundred. 
44 The sons of Asher according to their families: Imnah from whom came the family of the Imnites, and Ishvi from whom came the family of the Ishvites, and Beriah from whom came the family of the Berites. 
45 The sons of Beriah: Heber from whom came the family of the Heberites, and Malchiel from whom came the family of the Malchielites. 
46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. 
47 These are the families of the sons of Asher according to the number of those who were counted, fifty three thousand and four hundred. 
48 The sons of Naphtali according to their families: Jahzeel from whom came the family of the Jahzeelites, and Guni from whom came the family of the Gunites. 
49 And Jezer from whom came the family of the Jezerites, and Shillem from whom came the family of the Shillemites. 
50 These are the families of Naphtali according to the number of those who were counted, forty five thousand and four hundred. 
51 This is the number of those who were numbered among the children of Israel: six hundred one thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
52 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
53 To these people the land will be divided for an inheritance, according to the number of names. 
54 To those who are numerous you will give a greater portion, and to those who are fewer you will give a smaller portion. Each family will receive its inheritance according to its number. 
55 But the division of the land will be by lot. And they will possess the land according to the names of the tribes of their fathers. 
56 And the land will be divided by lot between those who are many and those who are few. 
57 And these are the Levites who were numbered according to their families: Gershon from whom came the family of the Gershonites, and Kohath from whom came the family of the Kohathites, and Merari from whom came the family of the Merarites. 
58 These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites, and the family of the Korahites. And Kohath begat Amram. 
59 The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi who was born to Levi in Egypt. And the children she bore to Amram were Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister. 
60 And to Aaron were born Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
61 And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before Yahweh. 
62 And those who were numbered, all males from a month old and upward, were twenty three thousand. They were not numbered among the children of Israel, because no inheritance was given to them among the children of Israel. 
63 These are those who were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, in the plain of Moab near the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
64 And among them was none of the children of Israel who had been numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest in the wilderness of Sinai. 
65 For Yahweh had said said about those men [who were old enough to make war and therefore to be counted at that time]: They will die in the wilderness. So not one of them remained alive, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.
