1 While Israel was camping in Shittim, the people began to play the prostitute with the daughters of Moab. 
2 These daughters of Moab invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and worshiped these gods. 
3 And Israel clung to Baal Peor, and the anger of Yahweh was kindled against Israel. 
4 And Yahweh said to Moses, Gather all the chiefs of the people and hang the guilty before Yahweh in front of the sun, that the fierce anger of Yahweh may be turned away from Israel. 
5 Then Moses said to the judges of Israel, Let each of you kill those of his people who have joined themselves to Baal Peor. 
6 And behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought a Midianitish woman to his brothers in the sight of Moses and in the sight of all the assembly of the children of Israel, while they wept at the door of the tent of meeting. 
7 And when Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest saw this, he rose up from the midst of the assembly and took a spear in his hand. 
8 And he followed the man of Israel into his tent and pierced them both, the man of Israel and the woman through her belly. And the plague stopped among the children of Israel. 
9 There were twenty four thousand persons who died by this plague. 
10 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
11 Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, has turned away my anger from the children of Israel, because he was animated by my zeal among them. And I have not consumed the children of Israel in my jealousy. 
12 Therefore you will say to him, Behold I give to him my covenant of peace. 
13 And it will be for him and for his seed after him, a covenant of a perpetual priesthood. For he was zealous for his God and made an atonement for the children of Israel. 
14 And the man of Israel who was killed with the Midianitish woman, that man was Zimri the son of Salu. He was a prince of the family of the Simeonites. 
15 And the Midianitish woman who was killed, she was Cozbi the daughter of Zur who was chief over his father's house in Midian. 
16 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
17 Treat the Midianites as enemies, and kill them. 
18 For they have shown themselves to be your enemies by deceiving you with their tricks in the matter of Peor and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister who was killed on the day of the plague which took place because of the matter of Peor.
