1 Now Korah the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, went apart with Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On the son of Peleth, all from the sons of Reuben. 
2 And they rose up against Moses with some of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the congregation which means from those who had been appointed to govern different parts of the people and who were famous men. 
3 And they gathered together against Moses and Aaron, and said to them: You are doing too much. For the whole assembly is holy, every one of them, and Yahweh is among them. Why do you exalt yourself above the assembly of Yahweh. 
4 When Moses heard this, he fell on his face. 
5 And he spoke to Korah and to all his company by saying, Tomorrow Yahweh will make known who is his and who is holy, and who deserves to be near him. And he will bring to himself whoever he chooses. 
6 This is what you will do. Take for you braziers, Korah and all his company. 
7 And tomorrow you will set fire to it, and place incense on it before Yahweh. And whoever Yahweh chooses, the same one will be holy. You are doing too much, you the sons of Levi. 
8 And Moses said to Korah: Listen now, you the sons of Levi. 
9 Is it a small thing for you that the God of Israel has chosen you from the multitude of Israel, bringing you near himself to do the service of the tabernacle of Yahweh and to stand before the assembly and serve them. 
10 He has brought you near himself, with all your brothers the sons of Levi. And now you also want the priesthood. 
11 It is for this purpose that you and all your company are gathered together against Yahweh. For who is Aaron, that you murmur against him. 
12 And Moses sent for Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab. And they answered: We will not come. 
13 Is it a small thing that you have brought us out of a land where milk and honey flow, to make us die in the wilderness. And now you also want to make yourself a lord and ruler over us. 
14 And you have not led us to a land where milk and honey flow. These things in this place are not fields and vineyards that you have given us to possess. Do you think you are going to fool the eyes of these people. We will not come. 
15 Then Moses was very angry and said to Yahweh: Pay no attention to their offering. I did not even take a donkey from them, and I did not cause any trouble to any of them. 
16 And Moses said to Korah: You and all your company, come tomorrow before Yahweh. You, and those who agree with you, and Aaron. 
17 And each one will take his brazier and put incense on it, and present himself with his brazier before Yahweh. There will be two hundred and fifty braziers, and in addition you and Aaron also will each take his brazier. 
18 So they took each man his own brazier, put fire on it and put incense on it, and they stood at the door of the tent of meeting with Moses and Aaron. 
19 And Korah gathered all the multitude against Moses and Aaron at the entrance to the tent of meeting. Then the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the congregation. 
20 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron in the following words. 
21 Separate yourselves from among this assembly, and I will consume them in a single moment. 
22 And they fell on their faces and said: O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh. Is it not only one man who has sinned. Then why will you be angry with the whole congregation. 
23 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
24 Speak to the congregation and say, Go away from the dwelling of Korah, and of Dathan, and of Abiram. 
25 And Moses got up and went to Dathan and Abiram. And the elders of Israel followed him. 
26 And Moses spoke to the assembly and said: Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men. And do not touch anything that belongs to them, lest you perish by all their sins. 
27 So they withdrew in all directions from the dwelling of Korah, and of Dathan, and of Abiram. And Dathan and Abiram went out and each stood at the entrance of his tent, with their wives and their sons and their little children. 
28 And Moses said: By this you will know that Yahweh has sent me to do all these things, and that I do not act on my own. 
29 If these men die as ordinary men die, and if they suffer the usual fate of ordinary men, then it is not Yahweh who has sent me. 
30 But if Yahweh does a new thing, and the earth opens its mouth to engulf them with all that belongs to them, and they go down alive to hell, then you will know that these people have despised Yahweh. 
31 And just when he finished saying all these words, the ground that was under them split. 
32 And the earth opened its mouth and engulfed them and their families, with all the persons who were there in agreement with Korah and all that belonged to them. 
33 So they and everything they had, they went down alive to hell and the earth covered them. They thus perished among the congregation. 
34 And all Israel who were around these persons, they fled at the cry of these persons. For they said: Let us flee, lest the earth engulfs us. 
35 And a fire came out from Yahweh, and it consumed the two hundred and fifty men who were offering the incense. 
36 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
37 Tell Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest to remove the braziers from the fire and to scatter the fire beyond the altar, for they are sanctified. 
38 The braziers, I say, of these sinners who destroyed their own lives. And let make of them large plates for a covering of the altar. For these braziers have been presented before Yahweh therefore they will be holy, and they will be a sign to the children of Israel. 
39 And Eleazar the priest took the braziers that the victims of the fire had presented, and he made large plates of them for a covering of the altar. 
40 It is a remembrance for the children of Israel so that no stranger, one who is not of the seed of Aaron, comes near to offer incense before Yahweh and may be like Korah and his company. This is what Yahweh said to Eleazar by the hand of Moses. 
41 But the next day all the multitude of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron and said, You have killed the people of Yahweh. 
42 And when the congregation was gathered against Moses and Aaron, then they looked toward the tent of meeting and behold, the cloud covered it and the glory of Yahweh appeared. 
43 Then Moses and Aaron went to the tent of meeting. 
44 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
45 Depart from among this congregation and I will consume them in a moment. And they fell on their faces. 
46 And Moses said to Aaron: Take the brazier and put the fire of the altar to it, and put incense on it, and carry it quickly to the congregation and make an atonement for them. For an anger has gone out from Yahweh, and the plague has begun. 
47 And Aaron took the fire as Moses said, and ran into the midst of the congregation and behold, the plague had begun among the people. Then he offered the incense, and made atonement for the people. 
48 And he placed himself between the dead and the living, and the plague was stopped. 
49 There were fourteen thousand and seven hundred people who died from this plague, besides those who died because of Korah. 
50 And Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And the plague was stopped.
