1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plain of Moab near the Jordan opposite Jericho. He spoke in the following words. 
2 Command the children of Israel to give cities for habitation to the Levites, out of the inheritance of their possession. You will also give the Levites the suburbs around these cities. 
3 Then they will have the cities to dwell in, and their suburbs will be for their cattle and for their substance and for all their animals. 
4 And the suburbs of the cities that you will give to the Levites will be a thousand cubits all around, from the wall of the city and beyond. 
5 And you will measure outside the city two thousand cubits on the east side, and two thousand cubits on the south side, and two thousand cubits on the west side, and two thousand cubits on the north side. And the city will be in the middle. This will be the measure of the suburbs of their cities. 
6 And among the cities that you will give to the Levites, there will be six cities of refuge where the innocent murderer will be able to flee. And to them you will add forty two other cities. 
7 The total of the cities that you will give to the Levites will be forty eight cities, each one with its suburb. 
8 And concerning these cities that you will give out of the possession of the children of Israel, from those whose land is greater you will take more cities and from those whose land is smaller you will take fewer cities. According to their inheritance, each tribe will give of his cities to the Levites. 
9 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
10 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: When you have crossed the Jordan and entered the land of Canaan. 
11 Then you will establish cities that will be cities of refuge for yourself, where the murderer who killed someone unintentionally can escape. 
12 And these cities will be your refuge from the avenger of blood, so that the murderer will not be put to death until he has appeared before the congregation to be judged.
13 And out of the cities that you will give to the Levites, six cities will be for refuge. 
14 And you will appoint three cities on this side of the Jordan, and you will appoint three cities in the land of Canaan. They will be the cities of refuge. 
15 These six cities will serve as a refuge for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for him who dwells among you. And any man who has killed someone unintentionally will escape there. 
16 If a man strikes his neighbor with an iron instrument and if this results in death, then he is a murderer and the murderer will be punished with death. 
17 If a man strikes his neighbor with a stone that could cause death and if this results in death, then he is a murderer and the murderer will be punished with death.
18 If a man strikes his neighbor with a wooden instrument that could cause death and if this results in death, then he is a murderer and the murderer will be punished with death. 
19 The avenger of blood himself, namely the one who is appointed to this purpose, he will put the murderer to death. When he meets him, he will kill him. 
20 If a man thrusts his neighbor by hatred or if he throws something at him with premeditation, and if this results in death. 
21 Or if a man strikes his neighbor with his hand out of enmity and if this results in death, then the one who struck will be punished with death because he is a murderer. The avenger of blood will kill the murderer when he meets him. 
22 But if a man suddenly pushes his neighbor and not out of enmity, or if he throws something at him without premeditation. 
23 Or if a man inadvertently drops a stone on his neighbor that could cause death, and if this results in death despite the fact that he was not an enemy of his neighbor at that time and was not trying to harm him. 
24 Then the assembly will judge between the one who caused death and the avenger of blood by using the previous instructions. 
25 And the congregation will deliver the murderer from the hand of the avenger of blood. And the congregation will bring back the murderer to the city of refuge where he had fled, and he will dwell there until the death of the high priest who has been anointed with the holy oil. 
26 But if the murderer goes beyond the borders of the city of refuge to which he had fled. 
27 And if the avenger of blood meets him outside the borders of this city of refuge, then the avenger of blood will not be guilty in killing him. 
28 For the murderer must remain in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest. And after the death of the high priest, he will return to the land of his possession. 
29 Now these things will be for you a law of judgment throughout your generations, in all your dwellings. 
30 If a person kills another person, then the murderer's life will be taken based on the testimony of the witnesses. But one witness will not be enough to sentence a person to death. 
31 Moreover, you will not accept ransom for the life of a murderer who deserves to die. But he will be punished with death. 
32 And you will not accept a ransom to enable a murderer to escape from his city of refuge in order to return to the land and dwell there before the death of the high priest. 
33 In this way you will not defile the land where you live, because blood defiles the land. And the only way to purify the land of blood that has been shed without justification is to shed the blood of the one who intentionally made this happen without being manipulated by another. 
34 You will not defile the land where you will dwell, because I also dwell there. For I Yahweh, I dwell among the children of Israel.
