1 Moreover, on the first day of the seventh month you will have a holy convocation, and you will not do any servile work. It will be a day of blowing the trumpets to you. 
2 And you will make a burnt offering for a pleasant smell to Yahweh: a young bullock, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old without blemish. 
3 An their meal offering will be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bullock, and two tenths of an ephah for each ram. 
4 And a tenth of an ephah for each lamb of the seven lambs. 
5 And you will offer a male goat for a sin offering to make an atonement for you. 
6 You will offer these sacrifices besides the burnt offering of the month at the new moon with its associated meal offering, and the perpetual burnt offering with its associated meal offering and drink offering, according to their ordinance for a pleasant smell. It is a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. 
7 And on the tenth day of this seventh month you will have a holy convocation, and you will humble your souls, and you will not do any work. 
8 But you will offer a burnt offering to Yahweh for a pleasant smell: a young bullock, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old. They will be without blemish. 
9 And their meal offering will be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bullock, and two tenths of an ephah for each ram. 
10 And a tenth of an ephah for each lamb of the seven lambs. 
11 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of the atonement and the perpetual burnt offering with its associated meal offering. And all the associated drink offerings. 
12 And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you will have a holy convocation. You will not do any servile work, but you will celebrate a feast to Yahweh for seven days. 
13 And you will offer a burnt offering for a sacrifice made by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh: Thirteen young bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old. They will be without blemish. 
14 And their meal offering will be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bullocks, and two tenths of an ephah for each of the two rams. 
15 And a tenth of an ephah for each of the fourteen lambs. 
16 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering. And the associated meal offering and drink offering. 
17 And on the second day you will offer twelve young bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
18 With their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
19 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering with its associated meal offering. And their drink offerings. 
20 And on the third day you will offer eleven bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
21 With their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
22 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering, and its meal offering and its drink offering. 
23 And on the fourth day you will offer ten bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
24 With their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
25 And a male goat for a sin offering besides the perpetual burnt offering, and its meal offering and its drink offering. 
26 And on the fifth day you will offer nine bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
27 And their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
28 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering, and its meal offering and its drink offering. 
29 And on the sixth day you will offer eight bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
30 And their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
31 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering, and the meal offering and the drink offerings.  
32 And on the seventh day you will offer seven bullocks, and two rams, and fourteen lambs a year old without blemish. 
33 And their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
34 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering, and the meal offering and the drink offering. 
35 And on the eighth day you will have a solemn assembly, and you will not do any servile work. 
36 But you will offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh: a bullock, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old without blemish. 
37 And their meal offerings and their drink offerings for the bullocks, and for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number and according to the established rules. 
38 And a male goat for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering, and the meal offering and the drink offering. 
39 These are what you will do to Yahweh in your established feasts, besides your vows and your freewill offerings, and for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings. 
40 And Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that Yahweh had commanded him.
