1 And Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses [by the initiative of Miriam], concerning the Ethiopian woman whom he had married. For he had married an Ethiopian woman. 
2 And they said, Is it only through Moses that Yahweh speaks. Is it not also through us that he speaks. And Yahweh heard this. 
3 Now Moses was a very patient man, more than any man on the earth. 
4 Suddenly Yahweh said to Moses, and to Aaron and to Miriam: Come out you three, and go to the tent of meeting. And the three of them went there. 
5 Then Yahweh came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood at the door of the tent of meeting. And he called Aaron and Miriam, who both came forward. 
6 And he said: Hear now my words. When there is a prophet of Yahweh among you, I will reveal myself to him in a vision, and I will speak to him in a dream. 
7 It is not the same for my servant Moses. He is faithful throughout my house. 
8 I speak to him mouth to mouth and not with obscure words, and I reveal myself to him without riddles. And he sees a representation of Yahweh. Why then have you not been afraid to speak against my servant, against Moses. 
9 Thus Yahweh was very angry with them, and he went away. 
10 And the cloud departed from the tent of meeting. And behold, Miriam was stricken with snow-white leprosy. And Aaron looked at Miriam and behold, she was a leper. 
11 Then Aaron said to Moses: Please my lord I beseech you, do not make us bear the sin which we have committed through folly and of which we are guilty. 
12 I pray you, let her not be like the stillborn child, whose flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother's womb. 
13 Then Moses cried to Yahweh by saying: O God I beseech you, heal her. 
14 And Yahweh said to Moses: If her father had spit in her face, would she not have been ashamed for seven days. Let her be locked up outside the camp for seven days, and after she will be received. 
15 And Miriam was locked up outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not depart until Miriam had returned. 
16 After that, the people left Hazeroth and encamped in the wilderness of Paran.
