1 And Balaam said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare here for me seven bullocks and seven rams. 
2 And Balak did as Balaam said, and Balak and Balaam offered a bullock and a ram on each altar. 
3 Then Balaam said to Balak, Stand by your burnt offering and I will go. Perhaps Yahweh will come and meet me, and then I will tell you what he will reveal to me. So Balaam went alone. 
4 And God met Balaam, and Balaam said to him: I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered a bullock and a ram on each altar. 
5 And Yahweh put an answer in the mouth of Balaam and said, Return to Balak and you will speak thus. 
6 Then Balaam returned to Balak and behold, Balak stood by his burnt offering, he and all the princes of Moab. 
7 And Balaam uttered his prophecy by saying, Balak the king of Moab brought me from Aram out of the mountains of the east and said: Come and curse Jacob for my sake, come and detest Israel. 
8 But how will I curse where God has not cursed. And how will I detest where Yahweh has not detested. 
9 For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the top of the hills I contemplate him. Behold these people have their own house and will not be regarded as other nations. 
10 Who can count the dust of Jacob and tell the number of the fourth part of Israel. Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my end be like his. 
11 Then Balak said to Balaam, What have you done to me. I have taken you to curse my enemies and behold, you have blessed them all together. 
12 And he answered and said, Must I not be careful to speak what Yahweh puts in my mouth. 
13 And Balak said to him: Come with me, I pray you, to another place from where you will see them. And you will only see part of them, you will not see them all. And therefore curse them from this place for my sake. 
14 And he brought him to Zophim at the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on each altar. 
15 Then Balaam said to Balak, Stand here by your burnt offering and I will go to meet Yahweh. 
16 And Yahweh met Balaam, and put an answer in his mouth and said, Return to Balak and you will speak thus. 
17 And Balaam returned to Balak and behold, Balak stood by his burnt offering with the princes of Moab. And Balak said to him, What has Yahweh said. 
18 And Balaam uttered his prophecy by saying: Arise and hear, Balak. Listen to me, you the son of Zippor. 
19 God is not a man so that he may lie, neither a son of man so that he may repent [by allowing any of his words to have no effect]. What he has said, will he not do it. And What he has declared, will he not accomplish it. 
20 Behold I am commanded to bless. For he has blessed and I cannot not modify it. 
21 He sees no iniquity in Jacob, he sees no transgression in Israel. Yahweh his God is with him, the joyful cry of a king is with those who are among them and who bear the inheritance of Jacob. 
22 God brought them out of Egypt, and he is with them like the strength of a wild bull. 
23 Sorcery has no power against Jacob, nor divination against Israel. At the appointed time it will be said to Jacob and to Israel what the work of God is. 
24 Behold this people arises like a lioness and stands like a lion. He will not lie down until he has devoured the prey and drunk the blood of the wounded. 
25 Then Balak said to Balaam: Do not curse him, but at least do not bless him. 
26 But Balaam answered and said to Balak, Have I not said this to you: I must do all that Yahweh says. 
27 And Balak said to Balaam, Come now I pray you, and I will bring you to another place. Maybe it will please God if you curse these people from there. 
28 And Balak brought Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks toward Ieshmon. 
29 Then Balaam said to Balak, Build me seven altars here, and prepare here for me seven bullocks and seven rams. 
30 And Balak did what Balaam said, and he offered a bullock and a ram on each altar.
