1 Then the whole congregation raised their voices and shouted, and the people wept during the night. 
2 And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron, and the whole assembly said to them, Why did it not please God that we die in the land of Egypt, or why did it not please God that we die in this wilderness. 
3 Why does Yahweh bring us into this land to fall by the sword, where our women and our grandchildren will become prey. Is it not better for us to return to Egypt. 
4 And they said one to another, Let us appoint a ruler, and return to Egypt. 
5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before the entire gathered congregation of the children of Israel. 
6 And of those who had explored the land, Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh tore their clothes. 
7 And they spoke to the whole assembly of the children of Israel by saying, The land that we went through to explore is a very good land. 
8 If Yahweh love us then he will lead us into this land and give it to us. It is a land where milk and honey flow. 
9 But do not rebel against Yahweh, nor fear the inhabitants of this land. For they will be like bread to us. Their shield has been taken away from them and Yahweh is with us, do not fear them. 
10 And the whole assembly said: Stone them with stones. 
11 But the glory of Yahweh appeared in the tent of meeting before all the children of Israel. And Yahweh said to Moses, How long will this people despise me. How much longer will they not believe in me despite all the wonders I have done among them. 
12 I will strike them with the pestilence and destroy them. And I will make you a nation greater and more powerful than them. 
13 And Moses said to Yahweh: The Egyptians will hear it, those from whose midst you have snatched this people by your great power. 
14 And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. For they have heard that you, Yahweh, you are in the midst of this people, and that you, Yahweh, you are seen by them face to face. And they have heard that your cloud stands over them, and that you go before them in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night. 
15 If you make this people die as one man, then the nations who have heard of you will talk about it. 
16 And they will say: It is because Yahweh had not the ability to bring these people into the land that he had sworn to give them. Therefore he killed them in the wilderness. 
17 Now I beseech you, let the power of my Lord be shown in its greatness, according to what you declared. 
18 For you have said: Yahweh is slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness. And he forgives iniquity and transgression but does not regard the guilty as innocent. And he visits the wickedness of the fathers on children up to the third and fourth generation. 
19 Therefore I beseech you to be merciful to the iniquity of this people, according to the greatness of your mercy, as you have forgiven this people from Egypt until now. 
20 And Yahweh said, I forgive according to your request. 
21 But I am alive, and all the earth will be filled with the glory of Yahweh. 
22 And concerning all those who have seen my glory and the wonderful works that I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and who have already tempted me ten times and have not obeyed my voice. 
23 Certainly these people will not see the land that I swore to their fathers to give them, and even all those who despised me will not see it. 
24 And because my servant Caleb was moved by another spirit and fully followed my way, I will bring him into the land where he went and his seed will inherit it. 
25 Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites inhabit the valley. Therefore turn around tomorrow and leave to the wilderness, by the way to the red sea. 
26 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words.  
27 How long will I let this wicked assembly murmur against me. I heard the murmurs of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me. 
28 Say to them: I am alive, says Yahweh. According to what you have spoken in my ears, thus I will do to you. 
29 Your corpses will fall in this wilderness. And concerning all of you who are numbered in all your counts, and who are twenty years old and upward, and who have murmured against me. 
30 You will not enter the land for which I raised my hand to make you dwell there, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun. 
31 And your children whom you said would be a prey, I will bring and they will know the land that you disdained. 
32 But for you, your corpses will fall in this wilderness. 
33 And your children will wander for forty years in the wilderness, and they will endure your acts of whoring until all your carcasses fall in the wilderness. 
34 Considering the number of days in which you explored the land, that is forty days, you will bear your iniquities for forty years. A year for each day, and you will feel my violation of promise. 
35 I Yahweh, I have spoken. And this is how I will act concerning this wicked assembly which gathered against me. And they will be consumed in this wilderness, and they will die there. 
36 And the men whom Moses sent to explore the land, and who on their return had made the whole assembly to murmur against him, by bringing up an evil report against the land. 
37 These same men who decried the land, they died by a plague before Yahweh. 
38 But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, they remained alive among these men who had gone to explore the land. 
39 Then Moses reported these words to all the children of Israel. And the people were in great desolation. 
40 And they rose early in the morning and went up to the top of the mountain and said: Lo, we are ready. We will go to the place which Yahweh has promised, for we have sinned. 
41 And Moses said, Why do you transgress the commandment of Yahweh. Your solution will not succeed. 
42 Do not go up, for Yahweh is not among you. Do not go up for fear of being defeated by your enemies. 
43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and you will fall by the sword. For when you turn away from Yahweh, he does the same towards you. 
44 They nevertheless persisted in going to the top of the mountain. But the ark of the covenant of Yahweh and Moses did not leave the camp. 
45 Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who dwelt in that mountain came down and smote them, and consumed them as far as Hormah.
