1 And the people murmured, and it displeased Yahweh. And Yahweh heard it, and therefore his anger was kindled. And the fire of Yahweh burned among them and devoured the edge of the camp.
2 Then the people cried out to Moses, and Moses prayed to Yahweh, and the fire stopped. 
3 And this place was called Tabera, because the fire of Yahweh burned there among them. 
4 And the multitude of people of all kinds who were among them were overcome with lust. And also the children of Israel began to cry again and said, Who will give us meat to eat. 
5 We remember the fish that we ate in Egypt and which cost us nothing, and the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic. 
6 But now our soul is dried up, and our eyes only see this manna. 
7 Now the manna looked like coriander seeds and its color was like that of bdellium. 
8 People scattered around to collect it, and ground it with millstones or beat it in mortars, and bake it in pots, and make cakes with it. It tasted like fresh oil. 
9 When the dew fell on the camp at night, the manna also came down with it. 
10 Then Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, each one at the door of his tent. And the wrath of Yahweh was greatly kindled, and Moses was grieved. 
11 And Moses said to Yahweh, Why do you afflict your servant, and why have I not found favor in your sight since you have given me the burden of all this people. 
12 Have I conceived all this people, or have I gave birth to them so that you would say to me 'Carry them in your bosom as a nurse carries a child' to the land that you swore to their fathers. 
13 Where will I find meat to give to all these people. For they cry beside me by saying, Give us meat to eat. 
14 I am not able to bear all these people alone, because it is too heavy for me. 
15 Rather than treating me like this, kill me I pray you, if I have found favor in your eyes, and do not let me see my misery. 
16 And Yahweh said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, of those whom you know to be the elders of the people and rulers over them. Bring them to the tent of meeting, and let them stand there with you. 
17 And I will come down, and speak with you there. And I will take of the spirit that is on you, and put it on them. And they will bear the burden of the people with you, and you will not bear it alone. 
18 And you will say to the people, Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, and you will eat meat. Since you cried in the ears of Yahweh by saying: Who will give us meat to eat, for we were comfortable in Egypt. Therefore Yahweh will give you meat, and you will eat it. 
19 You will not eat of it for a day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days. 
20 But a whole month, until it comes out of your nostrils and you feel disgusted by it. For you have rejected Yahweh who is among you, and you have wept before him and said: Why then have we left Egypt. 
21 And Moses said, Six hundred thousand foot soldiers are the people among whom I am, and you say: I will give them meat, and they will eat it for a whole month. 
22 Will sheep and oxen be slaughtered for them, so that they may have enough. Or will all the fish of the sea be gathered for them, so that they may have enough. 
23 And Yahweh answered Moses: Is the hand of Yahweh too short. Now you will see whether my word will come true or not. 
24 And Moses went out and told the people the words of Yahweh, and gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and placed them near the tent of meeting. 
25 Then Yahweh came down in a cloud and spoke to Moses. And he took of the spirit that was on him, and put it on the seventy elders. And as soon as the spirit rested on them, they prophesied for a while and did not go on. 
26 There were two men who remained in the camp and on whom the spirit rested. The name of the one was Eldad and the name of the other Medad. For they were among those registered, although they had not gone to the tent of meeting. And they prophesied in the camp. 
27 Then a young man ran and said to Moses, Eldad and Medad prophesy in the camp. 
28 And Joshua the son of Nun, who was one of the chosen servants of Moses, answered and said: Moses my lord, forbid them this. 
29 But Moses answered him: Are you jealous for my sake. If it pleases God, then let all the people of Yahweh be prophets, let Yahweh put his spirit on them.
30 And Moses returned to the camp, he and the elders of Israel. 
31 Then Yahweh blew a wind from the sea, which brought quails and spread them near the camp, a day’s journey on one side, and a day’s journey on the other, all around the camp. There were nearly two cubits above the ground. 
32 Then throughout that day and night, and throughout the next day, people got up and collected the quails. The one who gathered the least had ten full homers. And they placed them all around the camp for their use. 
33 And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of Yahweh ignited against the people. And Yahweh smote the people with a very great plague. 
34 And the name of Kibroth-Hattaavah was given to this place, because they buried there people who fell by lust. 
35 From Kibroth-Hattaavah the people journeyed to Hazeroth, and they stopped at Hazeroth.
