1 And Yahweh said to Aaron: You and your sons, and your father's house with you, you will bear the iniquity of the sanctuary. And you and your sons with you will bear the iniquity of your priesthood. 
2 Bring also your brothers, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, that they may join you and serve you. But you and your sons with you will stand before the tent of meeting. 
3 And these Levites [who are the other members of the tribe of your father] will keep what you command them and what concerns the whole tent of meeting. But they will not come near the utensils of the sanctuary or the altar, lest you and they die. 
4 So they will join with you, and keep the work of the tent of meeting for all the service of the tent of meeting. And no stranger will come near you. [That is to say, no one who is not of your descendants or of the entire tribe of Levi will come to do the service that I have commanded to be done in the tent of meeting]. 
5 And you will keep the service of the sanctuary and of the altar, so that there may be no more wrath on the children of Israel. 
6 For behold, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the children of Israel. And as a gift given to Yahweh, they are given to you to do the service of the tent of meeting. 
7 But you and your sons with you will keep your priesthood in everything that concerns the altar and everything that is beyond the veil. This is the service that you will provide. For I have made your priesthood an office of service therefore the stranger who is not one of your sons and who approaches [to do this service] will be put to death. 
8 And Yahweh spoke to Aaron by saying, Behold I have given you the keeping of my offerings, of all the things that the children of Israel consecrate. I have given it to you and to your sons because of the anointing, by a perpetual ordinance. 
9 These will be yours from the most holy things which are not completely consumed by fire: all their offerings of all their meal offerings, and of all their sin offerings, and of all their transgress offerings, which they bring to me. These will be most holy to you and to your sons. 
10 You will eat it in the most holy place. Every male will eat of it. It is most holy to you. 
11 This also will be for you: the heave offerings of their gifts, and all the wave offerings of the children of Israel. I have given them to you, and to your sons and to your daughters with you, by a perpetual law. He who is clean in your house will eat of it. 
12 All the best of the oil and all the best of the wine, and all the grain that they will offer to Yahweh as first fruits, I have given it you. 
13 And the first product of all that is in their land, which they will bring to Yahweh, will be for you. Whoever is clean in your house will eat of it. 
14 Everything that is consecrated from what is ordinarily useful in Israel will be for you. 
15 Every firstborn male among all the males who come from a womb, which they will offer to Yahweh both from men and from animals, will be for you. But you will redeem the firstborn of man, and you will redeem the firstborn of an unclean animal. 
16 And those that are to be redeemed, you will redeem them from the age of one month according to your estimation, at the price of five shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary which is twenty gerahs. 
17 But you will not redeem the firstborn of the cow, nor the firstborn of the sheep, nor the firstborn of the goat. For these are holy things. You will sprinkle their blood on the altar and burn their fat. It is an offering made by fire for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
18 And their flesh will be for you, like the breast that is waved and like the right shoulder, it will be for you. 
19 All the heave offerings from the holy things which the children of Israel offer to Yahweh, I have given it to you and to your sons and to your daughters with you, by a perpetual law. It is a covenant of salt before Yahweh, for you and for your seed with you. 
20 And Yahweh said to Aaron, You will have no inheritance in their land, and there will be no part for you among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel. 
21 And to the other children of the tribe of Levi, behold I have given every tithe in Israel as an inheritance for their service which they do in the tent of meeting. 
22 And the children of Israel will no more come near the tent of meeting lest they thus commit a sin and die. 
23 But the Levites will do the service in the tent of meeting, and they will bear their sins. They will possess no inheritance among the children of Israel, it is a perpetual law throughout your generations. 
24 For I have given to the Levites as an inheritance, all the tithes of the children of Israel which they will offer as an offering to Yahweh. Therefore I have said to them, You will have no inheritance among the children of Israel. 
25 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
26 You will speak to the Levites and say to them, When you receive from the children of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you will take a heave offering of that same thing for Yahweh, the tenth part of the tithe [a tithe of the tithe]. 
27 And this heave offering will be to you as the grain taken from the threshing floor and as the abundance of the winepress. 
28 Thus you also offer a heave offering to Yahweh from all your tithes which you will receive from the children of Israel, and you will give this heave offering of Yahweh to Aaron the priest. 
29 You will offer the heave offering of Yahweh from all the gifts that you receive. Out of all the abundance of gifts that will be given to you, you will make a holy offering of the same things. 
30 Therefore you will say to them, After you have made an offering of the abundance of what you have received, what will remain with you will be as income from the threshing floor and as income from the press. 
31 And you will eat it everywhere, you and your house. For it is your salary for your service in the tent of meeting. 
32 You will not bear a sin because of this, after you have offered the best of it. You will not defile the holy offerings of the children of Israel, lest you die.
