1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 This is the ordinance of the law which Yahweh has commanded by saying, Speak to the children of Israel and let them bring you a red cow without blemish, and on which there is no spot, and on which never came yoke. 
3 And you will give her to Eleazar the priest, and he will bring her out of the camp and have her killed before him. 
4 Then Eleazar the priest will take some of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle it seven times on the front of the tent of meeting. 
5 And he will have the cow burned in his sight, with her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, and her dung. All will be burned. 
6 Then the priest will take cedar wood, hyssop and scarlet lace, and throw them in the middle of the fire where the cow is burned. 
7 And the priest will wash his clothes, and wash his body in water. Then he will return to the camp, and will be unclean until evening. 
8 And the one who has burned the cow will wash his clothes in water, and wash his body in water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
9 And a clean man will gather the ashes of the cow and put it outside the camp in a clean place. And it will be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel, to make water for purification. It is a sin offering. 
10 And the one who has collected the ashes of the cow will wash his clothes, and will be unclean until evening. This will be a perpetual law for the children of Israel and for the foreigner who sojourns among them. 
11 Anyone who touches the dead body of a human being will be unclean for seven days. 
12 This one will purify himself with the water of purification on the third day, and on the seventh day he will be clean. But if he does not purify himself on the third, then on the seventh day he will not be clean. 
13 Whoever touches the dead body of a human being and does not purify himself, he defiles the tabernacle of Yahweh and will be cut off from Israel. For if the water of purification has not been sprinkled on him, then he will be unclean and his uncleanness will remain on him. 
14 This is the law. When a man dies in a tent, everything in the tent and everyone who enters the tent will be unclean for seven days. 
15 And any open vessel on which the covering is not correctly connected will be unclean. 
16 Anyone who touches a man killed with a sword in the field, or a dead human being, or a bone of a dead human being, or a grave, will be unclean for seven days. 
17 Therefore for an unclean person they will take of the burnt ashes of the sin offering, and put it with pure water in a vessel. 
18 And a clean person will take hyssop and dip it in water, and sprinkle it on the tent, and on all the utensils, and on the people who were there. And on the one who touched either the bones, or a slain man, or a dead man, or a grave. 
19 And the clean one will sprinkle on the unclean one the third day and the seventh day. And he will purify himself on the seventh day, and wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and in the evening he will be clean. 
20 But whoever is unclean and does not purify himself will be cut off from the congregation. For he has defiled the sanctuary of Yahweh, and the water of purification has not been sprinkled on him. He will therefore be unclean. 
21 It will be a perpetual law for them. And he who sprinkles the water of purification will wash his clothes, and whoever touches the water of purification will be unclean until the evening. 
22 And whatever the unclean person touches will be unclean, and whoever touches such a thing will be unclean until the evening.
