1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Avenge the children of Israel on the Midianites, and you will then be gathered to your people. 
3 And Moses spoke to the people by saying, Equip some of you for the war and let them go against Midian, to execute the vengeance of Yahweh on Midian. 
4 You will send to the war a thousand of each tribe, throughout the tribes of Israel. 
5 So out of the thousands of Israel, twelve thousand were taken and equipped for war, a thousand from each tribe. 
6 And Moses sent them to war, a thousand from each tribe. And he sent with them Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, who carried in his hands the holy instruments, that is, the trumpets for blowing. 
7 And they warred against Midian, as Yahweh commanded Moses. And they killed all the males. 
8 And they also killed the kings of Midian among all those who were killed. Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the five kings of Midian. And they killed Balaam the son of Beor with the sword. 
9 But the children of Israel took into captivity the women of Midian and their children, and plundered all their cattle and all their flocks and all their wealth. 
10 And they burned with fire all the cities of habitation and all the villages. 
11 And they took all the spoils and all the prey, both of man and of beast. 
12 And they brought the captives and the spoils and all that they had taken to Moses and Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the children of Israel who camped in the plain of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
13 Then Moses and Eleazar the priest and all the princes of the congregation went out to meet them outside the camp. 
14 And Moses was angry with the commanders of the army, with the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, who were returning from the service of the war. 
15 And Moses said to them, How is it that you have kept all the women alive. 
16 Behold they have cause the children of Israel to transgress against Yahweh through the counsel of Balaam, in the matter of Peor, and there came a plague among the congregation of Yahweh. 
17 Now therefore, kill all the males among the children, and kill all the women who have known a man by fleshly copulation. 
18 But you will keep alive for yourself all the girls who have not experienced carnal copulation. 
19 And you will remain outside the camp seven days, all of you who have killed anyone, and everyone who has touched the dead. And you will purify yourselves and your captives on the third and on the seventh day. 
20 And you will also purify every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goat's hair, and all wooden utensil. 
21 And Eleazar the priest said to the soldiers who went out to war, This is now the ordinance of the law which Yahweh commanded Moses. 
22 Concerning the gold, and the silver, and the brass, and the iron, and the tin, and the lead. 
23 And whatever can withstand the fire, you will make it go through the fire and it will be clean. Nevertheless it will be purified with the water of purification. And whatever cannot endure fire, you will pass it through water. 
24 And you will wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you will be clean. And then you will enter the camp. 
25 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
26 Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of persons and of beasts. You will do this with Eleazar the priest, and the chiefs of the father's houses of the congregation. 
27 And divide the spoils between the soldiers who went to the war, and all the congregation. 
28 And you will take a tribute for Yahweh from the portion of the soldiers who have gone to war: one soul out of each group of five hundred souls, whether of persons, or of oxen, or of donkeys, or of sheep. 
29 And you will take it from the half part that belongs to these soldiers, and give it to Eleazar the priest as a heave offering of Yahweh. 
30 But from the half part that belongs to the children of Israel, you will take one soul out of each group of fifty souls, whether of persons, or of oxen, or of donkeys, or of sheep, and even of all the cattle. And you will give them to the Levites who have the responsibility of the tabernacle of Yahweh. 
31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
32 The spoils, what was available to be shared from the plunder done by the soldiers, was six hundred seventy five thousand sheep. 
33 And seventy two thousand oxen. 
34 And sixty one thousand donkeys. 
35 And thirty two thousand persons in all, the women who had not experienced carnal copulation. 
36 And the half, forming the portion of those who had gone to war, was three hundred thirty seven thousand and five hundred sheep. 
37 And the tribute for Yahweh from the sheep was six hundred and seventy five. 
38 And from the portion of thirty six thousand oxen, the tribute for Yahweh was seventy two. 
39 And from the portion of thirty thousand and five hundred donkeys, the tribute for Yahweh was sixty one. 
40 And from the portion of sixteen thousand persons, the tribute for Yahweh was thirty two persons. 
41 And Moses gave the tribute of the offering of Yahweh to Eleazar the priest, as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
42 And the other half was the portion of the children of Israel which Moses had separated from that of the men of war. 
43 This half which belonged to the congregation was composed of three hundred thirty seven thousand and five hundred sheep. 
44 And thirty six thousand oxen. 
45 And thirty thousand and five hundred donkeys. 
46 And sixteen thousand persons. 
47 Moses, I say, took a part from the half that belonged to the children of Israel. He took one out of each group of fifty from this half, both of the persons and the animals. And he gave them to the Levites who had the responsibility of the tabernacle of Yahweh, as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
48 Then the commanders who were over the thousands of the soldiers of the war, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds came to Moses. 
49 And they said to Moses: Your servants have counted the soldiers who were under our authority, and not a man among us is missing. 
50 Therefore we have brought an offering to Yahweh, the things that each man found from the objects of gold. There are chains, and bracelets, and rings, and earrings, and leg ornaments, in order to make an atonement for our souls before Yahweh. 
51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received from them the gold and all the crafted jewellery. 
52 And all the gold of this offering they made to Yahweh was sixteen thousand and seven hundred and fifty shekels. It was offered by the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds of the men who had gone to the war. 
53 For every man of the war had also plundered for himself. 
54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting for a memorial of the children of Israel before Yahweh.
