1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to Aaron and say to him, When you place the lamps on the candlestick, the seven lamps must shine towards the front of the candlestick. 
3 And Aaron did so. He lit the lamps towards the front of the candlestick, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
4 The candlestick was of beaten gold, hammered gold. And down to its base, and to its flowers, it was of hammered gold. Moses made the candlestick according to the model that Yahweh had shown him. 
5 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
6 Take the Levites among the children of Israel and purify them. 
7 And This is how you will purify them. Sprinkle the water of purification on them water, and let them shave their whole body, and wash their clothes, and purify themselves. 
8 Then they will take a young bullock with its meal offering of fine flour kneaded with oil, and another young bullock for a sin offering. 
9 Then you will bring the Levites before the tent of meeting, and you will call together the whole assembly of the children of Israel. 
10 And you will bring the Levites near before Yahweh, and the children of Israel will put their hands on the Levites. 
11 And Aaron will offer the Levites before Yahweh, as a wave offering of the children of Israel. And they will be dedicated to the service of Yahweh. 
12 And the Levites will put their hands on the heads of the bullocks. And you will offer one as a sin offering, and the other as a burnt offering to Yahweh. You will thus make atonement for the Levites. 
13 And you will make the Levites stand before Aaron and before his sons, and you will offer them as a wave offering to Yahweh. 
14 You will thus separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites will be mine. 
15 And after this, the Levites will come and serve in the tent of meeting. This is how you will purify them, and you will offer them like a wave offering. 
16 For they are given to me entirely from among the children of Israel. I took them for myself instead of the firstborn, for all the firstborn males of the children of Israel are mine. 
17 For all the firstborn males of the children of Israel are mine, both among men and among beasts. From the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I have dedicated them to myself. 
18 And I have taken the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the children of Israel. 
19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons, from among the children of Israel, to serve the children of Israel in the tent of meeting and to make atonement for the children of Israel. And there will be no plague among the children of Israel when the children of Israel come near to the sanctuary. 
20 Then Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the children of Israel, they did towards the Levites all that the Yahweh commanded Moses concerning the Levites. Thus did the children of Israel towards them. 
21 And the Levites purified themselves, and washed their clothes. And Aaron offered them as a wave offering before Yahweh, and he made atonement for them to purify them. 
22 And after this, the Levites came to serve in the tent of meeting, in the presence of Aaron and his sons. As Yahweh commanded Moses concerning the Levites, thus it was done towards them. 
23 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
24 This also concerns the Levites: From the age of twenty five and upward, they will go in to perform their function in the service of the tent of meeting. 
25 And after the age of fifty, they will stop performing the service and will no longer be used. 
26 But they will help their brothers in the tent of meeting, to keep the things entrusted to them. But they will no longer do the service. This is how you will do for the Levites concerning their duties.
