1 Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hephir, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph. And these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
2 And they stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the assembly, at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And they spoke in the following words. 
3 Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among the assembly of those who rebelled against Yahweh in the company of Korah, but he died in his own sin and had no son. 
4 Why should the name of our father be cut off from his family just because he had no son. Give us a possession among the brothers of our father. 
5 Then Moses brought their cause before Yahweh. 
6 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
7 The daughters of Zelophehad are right. You will give them an inheritance among their father's brothers. It is to them that you will pass on the inheritance of their father. 
8 And you will speak to the children of Israel by saying, When a man dies and has no son, then you will pass on his inheritance to his daughter. 
9 And if he has no daughter, then you will give his inheritance to his brothers. 
10 And if he has no brothers, then you will give his inheritance to his father's brothers. 
11 And if his father has no brothers, then you will give his inheritance to the closest relative of his family and he will own it. And this will be a law and a judgment to the children of Israel, as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
12 And Yahweh said to Moses, Go up into this mountain of Abarim, and behold the land which I have given to the children of Israel. 
13 And when you have seen it, you also will be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was gathered. 
14 For you rebelled against my word in the desert of Zin, during the contestation of the assembly, and you have not sanctified me in the waters before their eyes. That is the water of Meribah in kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin. 
15 Then Moses spoke to Yahweh in the following words. 
16 Let Yahweh the God of the spirits of all flesh appoint a man over the congregation. 
17 He who is able to go out and in before them, and bring them out and in, so that the congregation of Yahweh may not be like sheep without a shepherd. 
18 And Yahweh said to Moses, Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit. And you will put your hands on him. 
19 And you will place him before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation, and give him orders before their eyes. 
20 Thus you will give him of your glory, so that all the congregation of the children of Israel may obey him. 
21 And he will stand before Eleazar the priest, who will inquire for him by the judgment of Urim before Yahweh. And at the word of Eleazar they will go out, and at the word of Eleazar they will come in, both Joshua and all the children of Israel with him, and all the congregation. 
22 And Moses did as Yahweh commanded him, and he took Joshua and placed him before Eleazar the priest and before all the assembly. 
23 And he put his hands on him, and gave him instructions, as Yahweh had commanded by Moses.
