1 Balaam understood that it pleased Yahweh to bless Israel and then he did not go like the other times to set divinations, but he turned his face toward the wilderness. 
2 And Balaam looked up and saw Israel encamped according to their tribes. Then the spirit of God came on him. 
3 And Balaam uttered his prophecy by saying, The word of Balaam the son of Beor, the word of one who has open eyes. 
4 The words of him who hears the words of God and sees the visions of the Almighty, of him whose eyes are opened when he kneels and bows himself. 
5 How goodly are your tents O Jacob, and your dwellings O Israel. 
6 They stretch out like valleys, like gardens by the river side, like trees of aloe that Yahweh has planted, like the cedars by the waters. 
7 Water flows from his buckets, and his seed will be in the abundant waters. His king rises above Agag, and his kingdom will be exalted. 
8 God brought him out of Egypt and is with him like the strength of a wild bull. He will devour the nations of his enemies. He will break their bones and pierce them with his arrows. 
9 He bends his knees and lies down like a young lion and a lioness. Who will make him stand up. Blessed is he who blesses you, and cursed is he who curses you. 
10 Then the anger of Balak was kindled against Balaam, and he clapped his hands and said to Balaam: I called you to curse my enemies and behold, you have already blessed them three times. 
11 Therefore now, run away to your place. I planned to honor you but behold, Yahweh has prevented you from being honored. 
12 And Balaam said to Balak, Have I not spoken to the messengers whom you sent to me in the following words. 
13 Even if Balak gives me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot override the order of Yahweh and do anything according to my own will. But I will only repeat the words that Yahweh will speak to me. 
14 And now behold, I go to my people. But before that, I will describe you what this people will do to your people in a future period. 
15 And Balaam uttered his prophecy by saying, The word of Balaam the son of Beor, the word of one who has open eyes. 
16 The words of him who hears the words of God and knows the plans of the Most High, of him who sees the visions of the Almighty, of him whose eyes are opened when he kneels and bows himself. 
17 I see him, but not from now. I contemplate him, but not from near. A star comes out of Jacob, a scepter rises from Israel. He pierces the flanks of Moab and destroys all the children of Seth. 
18 He makes himself master of Edom and he makes himself master of Seir, his enemies. But Israel demonstrates its strength. 
19 The one who rules will come from Jacob, and he will destroy the rest of the city. 
20 And when Balaam looked at Amalek, he uttered his prophecy by saying, Amalek was the first of nations but its end will come to destruction. 
21 And Balaam looked at the Kenites and uttered his prophecy by saying, Your dwelling is robust and your nest rests on the rock. 
22 Nevertheless the Kenite will be driven out when the Assyrian takes you into captivity. 
23 And Balaam uttered his prophecy by saying: Alas, who will live when God does this. 
24 And ships will come from the coasts of Kittim, and they will humble the Assyrian. And they will humble the Hebrew, and he also will be destroyed. 
25 Then Balaam got up and left and returned to his place. And Balak also went away.
