1 Then the chiefs of fathers' houses of the family of the children of Gilead, who is the son of Machir the son of Manasseh, from the families of the sons of Joseph, they came and spoke before Moses and the princes of the families of the children of Israel. 
2 And they said: Yahweh commanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel. And my lord was commanded by Yahweh to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters. 
3 Now if they marry one of the sons of another tribe of the children of Israel, then their inheritance will be cut off from the inheritance of our fathers and added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they will belong. And thus the inheritance which fell to us by lot will be diminished. 
4 And even when the jubilee of the children of Israel comes, their inheritance will remain added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they belong. And thus their inheritance will be cut off from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers. 
5 Then Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of Yahweh. He said: The tribe of the sons of Joseph have spoken in righteousness. 
6 Yahweh commanded the following things concerning the daughters of Zelophehad. They will marry whoever they want, provided they marry into a family of the tribe of their fathers. 
7 In this way, no inheritance among the children of Israel will pass from one tribe to another tribe. For the children of Israel will each join himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. 
8 And when a daughter has an inheritance from the tribes of the children of Israel, she will marry someone from a family of her father's tribe. And thus the children of Israel will each enjoy the inheritance of his tribe. (This inheritance was distributed by lot, but they must enjoy it separately). 
9 No inheritance will pass from one tribe to another tribe, but the tribes of the children of Israel will each hold fast to his own inheritance. 
10 And the daughters of Zelophehad did as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
11 And Mahlah, and Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophchad, they were married to the sons of their father's brothers. 
12 They married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of their father's family. 
13 These are the commandments and laws that Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses to the children of Israel, in the plain of Moab near the Jordan opposite Jericho.
