1 These are the journeys of the children of Israel, who came out of the land of Egypt according to their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
2 And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of Yahweh. And here are their journeys according to their goings out. 
3 They departed from Ramses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month, the morning after passover. And the children of Israel went out with a high hand, that is to say proudly, in the sight of all the Egyptians. 
4 And the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn whom Yahweh had struck among them. Yahweh also executed judgment against their gods. 
5 And the children of Israel departed from Rameses, and encamped in Succoth. 
6 And they departed from Succoth, and encamped in Etham which is in the edge of the wilderness. 
7 And they departed from Etham, and turned towards Pi-hahiroth which is opposite Baal-zephon, and encamped before Migdol. 
8 And they departed from before Hahiroth, and went through the midst of the sea into the wilderness. And the journeyed three days in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah. 
9 And they departed from Marah, and came to Elim. And in Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there. 
10 And they departed from Elim, and encamped by the Red Sea. 
11 And they departed from the Red Sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin. 
12 And they departed from the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah. 
13 And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. 
14 And they departed from Alush, and encamped in Rephidim where the people found no water to drink. 
15 And they departed from Rephidim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai. 
16 And they departed from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped in Kibroth-Hattaavah. 
17 And they departed from Kibroth-Hattaavah, and encamped in Hazeroth. 
18 And they departed from Hazeroth, and encamped in Rithmah. 
19 And they departed from Rithmah, and encamped in Rimmon-perez. 
20 And they departed from Rimmon-perez, and encamped in Libnah. 
21 And they departed from Libnah, and encamped in Rissah. 
22 And they departed from Rissah, and encamped in Kehelathah. 
23 And they departed from Kehelathah, and encamped in mount Shepher. 
24 And they departed from the mountain of Shepher, and encamped in Haradah. 
25 And they departed from Haradah, and encamped in Makheloth. 
26 And they departed from Makheloth, and encamped in Tahath. 
27 And they departed from Tahath, and encamped in Tarah. 
28 And they departed from Tarah, and encamped in Mithkah. 
29 And they departed from Mithkah, and encamped in Hashmonah. 
30 And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped in Moseroth. 
31 And they departed from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene-jaakan. 
32 And they departed from Bene-jaakan, and encamped in Hor-haggidgad. 
33 And they departed from Hor-haggidgad, and encamped in Jotbathah. 
34 And they departed from Jotbathah, and encamped in Abronah. 
35 And they departed from Abronah, and encamped in Ezion-geber. 
36 And they departed Ezion-geber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin which is Kadesh. 
37 And they departed from Kadesh, and encamped in mount Hor in the edge of the land of Edom. 
38 And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of Yahweh, and he died there in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month. 
39 And Aaron was one hundred and twenty three years old when he died on mount Hor. 
40 And the king Arad, a Canaanite who dwelt in the south of the land of Canaan, heard of the comming of the children of Israel. 
41 And they departed from mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmonah. 
42 And they departed from Zalmonah, and encamped in Punon. 
43 And they departed from Punon, and encamped in Oboth. 
44 And they departed from Oboth, and encamped in Iye-abarim, in the border of Moab. 
45 And they departed from Iyim, and encamped in Dibon-gad. 
46 And they departed from Dibon-gad, and encamped in Almon-diblathaim. 
47 And they departed from Almon-diblathaim, and encamped in the mountains of Abarim before Nebo. 
48 And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and encamped in the plains of Moab, near the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
49 And they encamped by the Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth to Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab. 
50 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab, near the Jordan opposite Jericho. He spoke in the following words. 
51 Speak to the children of Israel and say, When you have crossed the Jordan and entered the land of Canaan. 
52 Then you will drive out all the inhabitants of the land before you, and destroy all their pictures and their molten images, and demolish all their high places. 
53 And you will take possession of the land and dwell there. For I have given you the land to be your possession. 
54 And you will inherit the land by lot according to your families. To those who are more in number you will give a larger portion, and to those who are fewer in number you will give a smaller portion. Each will possess what has fallen to him by lot. And according to the tribes of your fathers you will inherit the land, for the land will be divided according to the tribes. 
55 But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land before you, those of them that you leave there will be as pricks in your eyes and thorns in your sides. And they will vex you in the land of your dwellings. 
56 And then it will come to pass that I will treat you as I had resolved to treat them.
