1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Send men to explore the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel. You will send a man from each of the tribes of their fathers, and each one will be a prince among them. 
3 And Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of Yahweh. All these men were heads of the children of Israel. 
4 Here are their names. For the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur. 
5 For the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori. 
6 For the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
7 For the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph. 
8 For the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun. 
9 For the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu. 
10 For the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. 
11 For the tribe of Joseph, namely the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.
12 For the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli. 
13 For the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael. 
14 For the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi. 
15 For the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. 
16 These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses gave the name Joshua to Hoshea the son of Nun. 
17 Go up this way towards the south, and go up into the mountains. 
18 Consider the land as it is, and the people who inhabit it, to see whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many. 
19 And how is the land where they live, to see if it is good or bad. And how are their cities, to see if they are open or fortified. 
20 And what the land is, to see if it is fat or thin, and if there are trees or not. Be brave and take some of the fruit of the land. It was the time of the first grapes. 
21 So they went up and spied out the land, from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, on the way to Hamath. 
22 And they went up toward the south, and came to Hebron where were Ahiman, and Sheshai, and Talmai, the sons of Anak. Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt. 
23 Then they came to the valley of Eshcol where they cut off a vine branch with a bunch of grapes, which two of them carried by means of a pole. They also took pomegranates and figs. 
24 This place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster that the children of Israel cut there. 
25 Then after forty days, they gave up spying out the country. 
26 And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel at Kadesh in the wilderness of Paran. And they reported to them and to the whole congregation, and showed them the fruits of the land. 
27 This is what they said to Moses: We have gone to the land where you sent us, and surely milk and honey flow there, and these are the fruits. 
28 Nevertheless the inhabitants of the country are powerful, and the cities are fortified and very large. Moreover, we saw the sons of Anak there. 
29 The Amalekites live in the southern region. And the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, they dwell in the mountains. And the Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. 
30 Then Caleb silenced the people before Moses, and said: Let us go up immediately and possess it. For we will undoubtedly overcome them. 
31 But the men who went up with him said: We cannot face this people, for they are stronger than us. 
32 And they brought up to the children of Israel an evil report of the land which they had explored by saying: The land which we traveled through to explore is a land that devours its inhabitants. And all those we saw there were men of great stature. 
33 And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak who are of the race of the giants. And we were in our own eyes and theirs like grasshoppers.
