1 When Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed it and sanctified it with all its utensils, as well as the altar with all its utensils, and had anointed them and sanctified them. 
2 Then the princes of Israel, heads of the houses of their fathers, presented their offering. They were the princes of the tribes, those who had presided over the enumeration [of the people]. 
3 And they brought their offering before Yahweh: six covered chariots and twelve oxen. A chariot for two princes and an ox for each prince. And they offered them before the tabernacle. 
4 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
5 Take these things from them, that you may use them for the service of the tent of meeting. And you will give them to the Levites, to each according to his function. 
6 And Moses took the chariots and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites. 
7 He gave two chariots and four oxen to the sons of Gershon, according to their functions. 
8 And he gave four chariots and eight oxen to the sons of Merari, according to their functions, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
9 But he gave none to the sons of Kohath because of their functions in the sanctuary, for they had to carry holy things on their shoulders. 
10 The princes also presented their offering for the dedication of the altar, in the day that it was anointed. The princes presented these offering before the altar. 
11 And Yahweh said to Moses: The princes will come one by one, and on different days, to present their offering for the dedication of the altar. 
12 The one who presented his offering on the first day was Nahshon, the son of Amminadab of the tribe of Judah. 
13 And his offering was a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
14 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
15 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
16 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
17 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
18 On the second day Nethanel, the son of Zuar and prince of the tribe of Issachar, presented his offerings. 
19 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
20 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
21 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
22 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
23 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
24 On the third day Eliab, the son of Helon and prince of the children of Zebulun, presented his offerings. 
25 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
26 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
27 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
28 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
29 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon. 
30 On the fourth day Elizur, the son of Shedeur and prince of the children of Reuben, presented his offerings. 
31 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
32 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
33 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
34 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
35 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
36 On the fifth day Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai and prince of the children of Simeon, presented his offerings. 
37 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
38 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
39 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
40 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
41 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
42 On the sixth day Eliasaph, the son of Reuel and prince of the children of Gad, presented his offerings. 
43 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
44 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
45 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
46 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
47 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
48 On the seventh day Elishama, the son of Ammihud and prince of the children of Ephraim, presented his offerings. 
49 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
50 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
51 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
52 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
53 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
54 On the eighth day Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur and prince of the children of Manasseh, presented his offerings. 
55 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
56 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
57 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
58 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
59 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
60 On the ninth day Abidan, the son of Gideoni and prince of the sons of Benjamin, presented his offerings. 
61 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
62 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
63 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
64 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
65 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and male five goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
66 On the tenth day Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai and prince of the children of Dan, presented his offerings. 
67 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
68 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
69 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
70 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
71 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
72 On the eleventh day Pagiel, the son of Ochran and prince of the children of Asher, presented his offerings. 
73 He offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
74 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
75 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
76 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
77 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
78 On the twelfth day Ahira, the son of Enan and prince of the children of Naphtali, presented his offerings. 
79 he offered a silver plate weighing one hundred and thirty shekels, and a silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Both were full of fine flour kneaded with oil, for a meal offering. 
80 And a golden cup of ten shekels, full of incense. 
81 And a young bullock, and a ram, and a lamb a year old, for a burnt offering. 
82 And a male goat for a sin offering. 
83 And for the peace offerings, two bullocks, and five rams, and five male goats, and five lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan. 
84 So this was the dedication of the altar by the princes of Israel, when it was anointed: Twelve silver plates, and twelve silver bowls, and twelve incense cups of gold. 
85 Each plate contained one hundred and thirty shekels of silver, and each bowl seventy. All the silver vessels contained two thousand and four hundred shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. 
86 The twelve incense cups of gold full of incense contained ten shekels per cup, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. All the gold of the incense cups was one hundred and twenty shekels. 
87 There were twelve bullocks for the burnt offering, and twelve rams, and twelve lambs of a year old, with their meal offerings. And twelve male goats for a sin offering. 
88 And for the peace offerings there were twenty four bullocks, and sixty rams, and sixty male goats, and sixty lambs of a year old. This was the dedication of the altar, after it had been anointed. 
89 And when Moses entered the tent of meeting to speak with God, he heard the voice of one speaking to him from between the two cherubim of the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony. And he spoke to him.
