1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Command the children of Israel to send every leper out of the camp, and every one who has an issue, and whoever is defiled by a dead person. 
3 Both men and woman will be send away, you will send them out of the camp so that they do not defile their tents in the midst of which I dwell. 
4 And the children of Israel did so, and sent them out of the camp. As Yahweh commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel. 
5 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
6 Speak to the children of Israel and say, When a man or a woman will sin against his neighbor by committing an unfaithfulness to Yahweh, when this person will thus be guilty. 
7 Then they will confess their sin they have made, and they will restore the entire damage, adding a fifth. And they will give it to the one against whom they were guilty. 
8 But if no one is entitled to the restitution of an object, then this object will be returned to Yahweh by giving it to the priest in addition to the ram of atonement with which he will make atonement for the guilty. 
9 And every offering of things consecrated by the children of Israel will belong to the priest to whom they are presented. 
10 And every person's hallowed things will be his. That is, whatever anyone give to a priest will belong to this priest. 
11 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
12 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, If a woman turns away from her husband and becomes unfaithful to him. 
13 And another man has with her the pleasures of the flesh, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of her husband and is kept secret. And yet she has defiled herself, and there is no witness against her, nor is she caught in the act. 
14 And if the husband is overcome by a spirit of jealousy towards his wife who has defiled herself, or if he is overcome by a spirit of jealousy and has suspicions towards his wife who has not defiled herself. 
15 Then this man will bring his wife to the priest. And he will bring an offering with her, a tenth of an ephah of barley flour. And he will not pour oil on it or put incense on it, for it is an offering of jealousy, an offering of remembrance which recalls an iniquity. 
16 And the priest will bring her near, and make her stand before Yahweh. 
17 Then the priest will take the holy water in an earthen vessel. And from the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle, the priest will take some and put it in the water. 
18 And the priest will make the woman stand before Yahweh, and he will uncover the woman's head, and put of the offering of remembrance in her hands. It is the jealousy offering. And the priest will have in his hand the bitter water which brings the curse. 
19 And the priest will make the woman swear, and say to her: If no man has slept with you, and if you have not turned away to defile yourself while being under the power of your husband, then this bitter water which brings the curse will not harm you. 
20 But if you have turned away from your husband and defiled yourself, and if a man other than your husband slept with you. 
21 Then the priest will make the woman swear with an oath of cursing and the priest will say to the woman: May Yahweh make you cursed and detestable among your people, and may Yahweh make your thigh dry and your belly swell. 
22 And may this water which bring curse enter your bowels to make your belly swell and dry up your thigh. Then the woman will answer: Amen (so be it), Amen (so be it). 
23 And the priest will write these curses in a book, and will  blot them out with the bitter water. 
24 And he will make the woman drink the bitter and cursed water, and the cursed water turned into bitterness will enter her. 
25 And the priest will take the jealousy offering from the woman's hands, and will wave the offering before Yahweh, and offer it on the altar. 
26 And the priest will take a handful of the offering for a memorial, and burn it on the altar. It is after this that he will make the woman drink the water. 
27 After he makes her drink the water, if she is defiled and has been unfaithful to her husband then the cursed water transformed into bitterness which enters her will produce its effect. And her belly will swell, and her thigh will wither, and this woman will be a curse among her people. 
28 But if the woman is not defiled but is pure, then she will be found innocent and she will conceive and give birth. 
29 This is the law of jealousy, for the case where a woman under the power of her husband turns away and defiles herself. 
30 And for the case where a husband is overcome by a spirit of jealousy and has suspicions about his wife. The priest will make her stand before Yahweh, and the priest will apply this law to her in its entirety. 
31 And the husband will be free from sin, but his wife will bear her iniquity.
