1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after their departure from the land of Egypt. He spoke in the following words. 
2 The children of Israel will celebrate the passover at the appointed time. 
3 You will celebrate it at its appointed time, in the fourteenth day of this month. You will celebrate it according to all the laws and ordinances relating to it. 
4 Then Moses spoke to the children of Israel, that they might celebrate the passover. 
5 And they celebrated the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at evening in the wilderness of Sinai. The children of Israel did according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses. 
6 And there were men who, being unclean because of a dead man, could not celebrate the passover on the same day. And they came before Moses and Aaron on the same day. 
7 And these men said to Moses, We are defiled by a dead man. Why should we be deprived of presenting the offering of Yahweh at the appointed time among the children of Israel. 
8 Then Moses said to them, wait for me to know what Yahweh commands you. 
9 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
10 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: If any of you or your descendants is unclean because of a corpse, or is on a journey, then he will celebrate the passover in honor of Yahweh. 
11 They will celebrate it on the fourteenth day of the second month at the evening. They will eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. 
12 They will not leave anything of it to remain until morning, and they will not break a bone of it. They will celebrate it according to all the ordinances of the passover. 
13 But the man who is clean and is not on a journey, if he refrains from celebrating the passover then he will be cut off from his people. Because he did not present the offering of Yahweh at the appointed time, this man will bear his sin. 
14 And if a foreigner staying with you celebrates the passover of Yahweh, then he will comply with the laws and ordinances of the passover. There will be one law among you, for the foreigner and for the native. 
15 And when the tabernacle was raised, a cloud covered the tabernacle namely the tabernacle of testimony which is the tent of meeting. And from evening until morning, it was an appearance of a fire over the tabernacle. 
16 And it was thus continuously. The cloud covered it during the day, and during the night there was an appearance of a fire. 
17 And whenever the cloud rose up from over the tabernacle, then the children of Israel journeyed. And the children of Israel encamped in the place where the cloud stayed. 
18 The children of Israel departed at the command of Yahweh, and they encamped at the command of Yahweh. They camped as long as the cloud remained over the tabernacle. 
19 And whenever the cloud remained long over the tabernacle, then the children of Israel obeyed Yahweh and did not depart. 
20 Thus whenever the cloud remained a few days over the tabernacle, they camped according to the commandment of Yahweh. For they journeyed at the command of Yahweh. 
21 If the cloud remained over the tabernacle from evening until morning, and rose in the morning, then they departed. Whether by day or by night, they journeyed when the cloud rose. 
22 If the cloud remained over the tabernacle for two days, or a month, or a year, then the children of Israel stayed in the camp and did not journey. But they always departed as soon as the cloud rose. 
23 So they always encamped at the commandment of Yahweh, and they always departed at the commandment of Yahweh. And they obeyed to Yahweh according to the commandment of Yahweh by the hand of Moses.
