1 The king Arad, a Canaanite who lived in the south, heard that Israel had come by the way of Atharim. Then he fought against Israel and took prisoners among them.
2 And Israel made a vow to Yahweh and said, If you deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. 
3 And Yahweh heard the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites. And they utterly destroy their cities, and called this place Hormah. 
4 Then they set out from the mount Hor by the way of the red sea, to bypass the land of Edom. And the people were very grieved because of the way. 
5 And the people spoke against God and against Moses by saying: Why did you bring us out of Egypt to make us die in the wilderness. For here there is neither bread nor water, and our soul is disgusted with this miserable food. 
6 And Yahweh sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and many died in Israel. 
7 And the people came to Moses and said to him, We have sinned because we have spoken against Yahweh and against you. Pray to Yahweh that he may take these serpents away from us. And Moses prayed for the people. 
8 And Yahweh said to Moses, Make for yourself a fiery serpent and set it up for a sign, and he who has been bitten will look at it and preserve his life. 
9 And Moses made a brass serpent and set it up for a sign. And whoever was bitten by a serpent, the same preserved his life by looking at the serpent of brass. 
10 And the children of Israel departed and camped at Oboth. 
11 And they departed from Oboth and camped in Iye-Abarim, in the wilderness which is opposite Moab, towards the east side. 
12 And from there they journeyed, and camped in the valley of Zered. 
13 From there they departed and camped on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness and comes out from the coast of the Amorites. For the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. 
14 Therefore it will be spoken in the book of the battles of Yahweh what thing he did in the red sea, and in the rivers of Arnon. 
15 And at the stream of the rivers that go down to the dwelling of Ar and is on the border of Moab. 
16 And from there they went to Beer. At this place is the well where Yahweh said to Moses: Gather the people together, and I will give them water. 
17 Then Israel sang this song: Arise, O well. You people, sing to its honor. 
18 This well was dug by princes, the nobles of the people dug it. The givers of law with their sticks. 
19 After these events, the children of Israel went to Mattanah. And from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth. 
20 And from Bamoth in the valley which is in the territory of Moab, they went to the top of Pisgah which is in front of Ieshimon. 
21 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites with the following words. 
22 Let me pass through your land. We will not turn aside to the fields or the vineyards, neither drink of the waters of yours wells. 
23 But Sihon did not allow Israel to pass through his territory. And he gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness. And he came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel. 
24 But Israel struck him with the edge of the sword, and took possession of his land from Arnon to Jabbok, even to the border of the children of Ammon. For the border of the children of Ammon was fortified. 
25 And Israel took all these cities, and dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites in Heshbon and in all the villages that were there. 
26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had previously fought against the king of the Moabites and had taken from him all his land as far as Arnon. 
27 Therefore the poets say: Come to Heshbon. Let the city of Sihon be rebuilt and fortified. 
28 For a fire is gone out of Heshbon, and a flame from the city of Sihon, and has consumed Ar of the Moabites and the lords of Bamoth in Arnon. 
29 Woe to you, Moab. You are lost, people of Chemosh. He made his sons fugitives, and his daughters captive to Sihon king of the Amorites. 
30 Their empire is lost from Heshbon to Dibon, and we extended our ravages as far as Nophah which reached Medeba. 
31 Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. 
32 And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they took the towns belonging to it and drove out the Amorites who were there. 
33 And they turned and went up to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he with all his people, to fight at Edrei. 
34 Then Yahweh said to Moses, Do not fear him for I have delivered him into your hands, with all his people and his land. And you will do to him as you did to Sihon, the king of the Amorites who dwelt in Heshbon. 
35 Therefore they smote him and his sons and all his people, until there was no one left from him. So they took possession of his land.
