1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Command to the children of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land of Canaan, this land will become your inheritance, the land of Canaan of which here are the limits. 
3 Your southern side will extend from the wilderness of Zin to the borders of Edom. And so your southern border will extend from the salt sea eastward. 
4 And the border will turn from the south to Maaleh-Akrabbim and reach to Zin, and will extend to the south of Kadesh-barnea. And from there it will continue to Hazar-addar, and go along to Azmon. 
5 And from Azmon the border will turn to the river of Egypt and reach the sea. 
6 And your western border will be the great sea. It will be your west border. 
7 And this will be your northern border: from the great sea you will mark it to the mountain of Hor. 
8 And from mount Hor you will mark it towards Hamath, and the end of the border will be at Zedad. 
9 And the border will continue to Ziphron and reach Hazar-enan. This will be your border in the north. 
10 And you will mark your eastern border from Hazar-enan to Shepham. 
11 And the border will go down from Shepham to Riblah, and to the east side of Aïn. And the same border will go down, and will extend along the sea of Chinnereth eastward. 
12 And the border will descend to the Jordan, to end at the salt sea. This will be your land with its borders all around. 
13 Then Moses commanded the children of Israel by saying, This is the land which you will inherit by lot, and which Yahweh commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half-tribe. 
14 For the tribe of the children of Reuben and the tribe of the children of Gad have already received their inheritance, according to the houses of their fathers. And one half of the tribe of Manasseh also has received his inheritance. 
15 These two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance on this side of the Jordan, opposite Jericho on the east side. 
16 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
17 These are the names of the men who will divide the land between you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun. 
18 And you will take also a prince from each tribe, to divide the land. 
19 And these are the names of these men. Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
20 And of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud. 
21 And of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon. 
22 And of the tribe of the sons of Dan, the prince Bukki the son of Jogli. 
23 And from the sons of Joseph, of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, the prince Hanniel the son of Ephod. 
24 And of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, the prince Kemuel the son of Shiphtan. 
25 And of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, the prince Elizaphan the son of Parnach. 
26 And of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, the prince Paltiel the son of Azzan. 
27 And of the tribe of the sons of Asher, the prince Ahihud the son of Shelomi. 
28 And of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, the prince Pedahel the son of Ammihud. 
29 These are those to whom Yahweh commanded to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel, in the land of Canaan.
