1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: When you enter the land of your habitations, which I give to you. 
3 And when you make an offering by fire to Yahweh, whether a burnt offering, or a vow offering, or a freewill offering, or in your feasts, to give a pleasant smell to Yahweh. Whether from the flock or from the herd. 
4 Then whoever makes his offering to Yahweh will bring a meal offering of a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a fourth of a hin of oil. 
5 And you will make a drink offering of a fourth of a hin of wine, to pour on a lamb which will be used for a burnt offering or for any other offering. 
6 And for a ram, the meal offering will be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a third of a hin of oil. 
7 And you will make a drink offering of a third of a hin of wine, for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
8 And concerning a bullock which will be used for a burnt offering or a vow offering or a peace offering to Yahweh. 
9 You will offer the bullock with a meal offering of three tenths of an ephah of fine flour, kneaded with half of a hin of oil. 
10 And you will bring with this a drink offering of half a hin of wine. For it is an offering made by fire, of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
11 Thus will it be done for a bullock, and for a ram, and for a lamb, and for a kid.  
12 According to the number of victims, you will do these things for each of them, according to their number. 
13 Every native will do these things in the manner explained, when he makes an offering by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
14 And for a foreigner who sojourns with you, or anyone who is among you throughout your generations, if he makes an offering by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh then he will offer it in the same way as you do. 
15 There will be one ordinance both for you of the assembly and for the foreigner who dwells among you. It is a perpetual law throughout your generations. The sojourner will be before Yahweh as you are. 
16 There will be one law and one ordinance for you and for the foreigner who sojourns among you. 
17 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
18 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: When you come into the land where I bring you. 
19 And when you will eat of the bread of the land, you will make a heave offering to Yahweh. 
20 You will present by elevation a cake of the first of your dough. You will present it to be the heave offering of the threshing floor. 
21 You will give an offering to Yahweh from the first fruits of your dough throughout your generations. 
22 If you sin unintentionally by not keeping all these commandments that Yahweh made known to Moses. 
23 All that Yahweh commanded you through Moses from the first day that Yahweh commanded Moses, and after that throughout your generations. 
24 And if the whole congregation has sinned unintentionally then when it is discovered, the whole congregation will offer a bullock for a burnt offering, for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. And also a meal offering and a drink offering according to the established rules. And a male goat for a sin offering. 
25 And the priest will make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they will be forgiven. For they sinned unintentionally and they brought their sacrifice, an offering made by fire to Yahweh, and their sin offering before Yahweh for their ignorance. 
26 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel and the foreigner who sojourns among them will be forgiven. For it was involuntarily that all the people sinned. 
27 But if only one person sinned unintentionally, then when it is discovered he will bring a female goat a year old for a sin offering. 
28 And the priest will make atonement for the ignorant, the one who has sinned unintentionally before Yahweh. The priest will thus make reconciliation for him and he will be forgiven. 
29 For the native among the children of Israel and for the foreigner who sojourns among them, there will be a same law for the one who sins unintentionally. 
30 But if anyone, whether a native or a foreigner, acts boldly and voluntarily transgresses any commandment of Yahweh, then he insults Yahweh. This person will be cut off from among his people. 
31 He has despised the word of Yahweh, and has broken his commandment. He will be cut off. He will bear his iniquity. 
32 While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, a man was found gathering wood on the sabbath. 
33 And those who found him gathering wood brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation. 
34 And they put him in prison, because what was to be done to him had not been declared. 
35 Then Yahweh said to Moses: This man will be put to death. The whole assembly will stone him outside the camp. 
36 And the whole assembly took him out of the camp and stoned him, and he died as Yahweh commanded Moses. 
37 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
38 Speak to the children of Israel and tell them to make fringes on the edges of their garments from generation to generation. And they will put a blue cord on these fringes. 
39 And you will have the fringes. And when you look at them, you will remember all the commandments of Yahweh and do them. And thus you will not follow the desires of your own hearts, nor the desires of your own eyes, which you use to play the whore [to prostitute your souls by going after false gods]. 
40 And thus you will remember and do all my commandments, and you will be holy to your God. 
41 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am Yahweh your God.
