1 And the children of Israel departed and they encamped in the plain of Moab, near the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
2 Now Balak the son of Zippor saw everything that Israel had done to the Amorites. 
3 And Moab were greatly afraid of the people, because they were many. And Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel. 
4 Therefore Moab said to the elders of Midian, This multitude will devour all that surrounds us, as the ox grazes the greenery of the fields. And Balak the son of Zippor was then king of Moab. [The people of Moab are called the Moabites] 
5 And Balak sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, in Pethor which is by the river of the land of the children of his people. They were to call Balaam by telling him the following thing: Behold there is a people who came out of Egypt and who covers the face of the earth, and who dwells opposite me. 
6 Therefore come now, I pray you, and curse this people because they are stronger than me. Perhaps in this way I will defeat them and drive them out of the land. For I know that whoever you bless is blessed, and whoever you curse is cursed. 
7 And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed, having with them gifts of the soothsaying. And they came to Balaam and told him the words of Balak. 
8 And Balaam said to them, Stay here this night, and I will give you an answer according to what Yahweh will tell me. And the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam. 
9 And God came to Balaam and said to him: Who are these men with you. 
10 And Balaam said to God: Balak the son of Zippor and king of Moab has sent them with the following words. 
11 Behold there is a people who came out of Egypt and covers the face of the earth. Come now and curse them for me. Maybe in this way I will defeat them and drive them away. 
12 And God said to Balaam: Do not go with them, and do not curse the people because they are blessed. 
13 And Balaam rose up in the morning and said to the princes of Balak, Return to your land, because Yahweh has refused to let me go with you. 
14 And the princes of Moab arose and returned to Balak, and said: Balaam has refused to come with us. 
15 Then Balak again sent princes [leaders] in greater numbers and more honorable than the preceding ones. 
16 And they came to Balaam and said to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zippor: Let nothing, I pray you, prevent you from coming to me. 
17 For I will give you many honors, and I will do whatever you tell me. Come therefore, I pray you, and curse this people for me. 
18 And Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak: Even if Balak gives me his house full of silver and gold, I will not go beyond the word of Yahweh my God to do less or more. 
19 But now, I pray you, stay here this night and I will know again what Yahweh will say to me. 
20 And God came to Balaam at night and said to him: Since these men have come to call you, arise and go with them. But you will do what I will tell you. 
21 And Balaam got up in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and went with the princes of Moab. 
22 And the anger of God was kindled because Balaam went. And the angel of Yahweh stood in the way to resist him while Balaam rode on his donkey. The two servants of Balaam were with him. [Now the angel of Yahweh wanted to resist him because of the thing that Balaam was hoping in his heart while he was going with the princes of Moab. For Balaam had chosen to consult God ​​a second time rather than respond directly to the messengers when they came back to him with exactly the same request.]
23 And the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh standing in the path with his sword drawn in his hand, and the donkey turned out of the path and went into the fields. But Balaam struck the donkey to bring her back on the path. 
24 And later the angel of Yahweh stood on a path of the vineyards, and there was a wall on one side and a wall on the other. 
25 And the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh, and pressed herself against the wall, and pressed Balaam's foot against the wall. And Balaam struck her again. 
26 And the angel of Yahweh went further and stood in a narrow place where there was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left. 
27 And the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh, and fell down under Balaam. Therefore Balaam's anger was kindled, and he struck the donkey with a stick. 
28 And Yahweh opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam: What have I done to you, so that you have already smitten me three times. 
29 And Balaam said to the donkey: It is because you have made fun of me. If I had a sword in my hand, I would have killed you already. 
30 And the donkey said to Balaam: Am I not your donkey which you have always ridden until this day. Do I used to do this to you. And Balaam answered: No. 
31 Then Yahweh opened the eyes of Balaam, and Balaam saw the angel of Yahweh standing in the way with his sword drawn in his hand. Then Balaam bowed himself, and Balaam fell flat on his face. 
32 And the angel of Yahweh said to him: Why have you already struck your donkey three times. Behold I have come out to resist you, because your way is not straight before me [because of the thing that you are hoping in your heart while you are going with the princes of Moab, because you have chosen to consult me ​​a second time rather than respond directly to the messengers when they came back to you with exactly the same request]. 
33 And the donkey saw me and turned away from me three times already. If she had not turned away from me, surely I would have killed you already, and I would have let her live. 
34 Then Balaam said to the angel of Yahweh: I have sinned because I did not know that you were before me on the way. And now, if it displeases you then I will return home. 
35 And the angel said to Balaam: Go with these men, but you will only repeat the words that I will say to you. And Balaam went with the princes of Balak. 
36 When Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him in a city of Moab which is on the border of the Arnon, on the extreme border. 
37 And Balak said to Balaam: Have I not sent to call you. Why did you not want to come to me. Am I not able to treat you with honor. 
38 And Balaam said to Balak: Behold I have come to you now. But have I now the power to speak anything by myself. For the only things I will speak to you are the words that God will put in my mouth. 
39 And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth. 
40 Then Balak offered bullocks and sheep, and sent of them to Balaam and to the princes who were with him. 
41 And in the morning Balak took Balaam and brought him up to the high places of Baal, that from there he might see the greatest extent of the people.
