1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Command the children of Israel and say to them: You will take care to present at the appointed time my offerings and my food, for my sacrifices which are made by fire and which are of a pleasant smell for me. 
3 And you will say to them: This is the offering made by fire that you will offer to Yahweh. Every day, two lambs a year old without blemish, as a perpetual burnt offering. 
4 You will offer one of the lambs in the morning and the other lamb in the evening. 
5 And for the associated meal offering, a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with a quarter of a hin of beaten oil. 
6 It will be a daily burnt offering, as it was offered at mount Sinai for a pleasant smell. It is a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. 
7 And the associated drink offering will be a quarter of a hin for each lamb. You will cause to pour the drink offering to Yahweh in the holy place. 
8 You will offer the second lamb in the evening, and its meal offering and its drink offering will be like those in the morning. It is an offering made by fire of a pleasant smell to Yahweh. 
9 And on the sabbath you will offer two lambs a year old without blemish. And its meal offering will be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, with the associated drink offering. 
10 This is the sabbath burnt offering, for every sabbath, besides the perpetual burnt offering with its associated drink offering. 
11 And at the beginning of your months namely at the new moon, you will offer as a burnt offering to Yahweh two young bullocks, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old without blemish. 
12 And for the associated meal offering, three tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for each bullock, and two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for each ram. 
13 And a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for the meal offering of each lamb. All this for a burnt offering of a pleasant smell. It is an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 
14 And their associated drink offerings will be half a hin of wine for each bullock, and a third of a hin for each ram, and a quarter of a hin for each lamb. This is the burnt offering at the beginning of the month, for every month of the year. 
15 And a male goat will be offered to Yahweh for a sin offering, besides the perpetual burnt offering and the associated drink offering. 
16 And the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of Yahweh. 
17 And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast. Unleavened bread will be eaten for seven days. 
18 On the first day there will be a holy convocation, and you will not do any servile work. 
19 But you will offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering to Yahweh. There will be two young bullocks, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old. They will be without blemish. 
20 And their meal offering will be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bullock, and two tenths of an ephah for each ram. 
21 And a tenth of an ephah for each lamb of the seven lambs. 
22 And you will offer a male goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you. 
23 And you will offer these sacrifices in the morning besides the perpetual burnt offering. 
24 And you will offer them daily for the seven days. It is for the food of the offering made by fire, for a pleasant smell to Yahweh. This will be done besides the perpetual burnt offering and the associated drink offering. 
25 And on the seventh day you will have a holy convocation, and you will not do any servile work. 
26 And in the day of your first fruits, when you bring a new meal offering to Yahweh, you will have a holy convocation according to your weeks and you will not do any servile work. 
27 But you will offer a burnt offering for a pleasant smell to Yahweh: two young bullocks, and a ram, and seven lambs a year old. 
28 And their meal offering of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bullock, and two tenths of an ephah for each ram. 
29 And a tenth of an ephah for each lamb of the seven lambs. 
30 And a male goat to make an atonement for you. 
31 You will do this besides the perpetual burnt offering and its associated meal offering. All of what is offer will be without blemish, and with their drink offerings.
