1 Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle. And they saw that the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead were a fit place for cattle. 
2 Then the children of Gad and the children of Reuben came to Moses and to Eleazar the priest, and to the princes of the congregation, and spoke to them in the following words. 
3 Concerning the territories of Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Sebam, and Nebo, and Beon. 
4 This land which Yahweh smote before the congregation of Israel is a fit place for cattle, and your servants have cattle. 
5 Therefore, they added, if we have found favor in your eyes, let this land be given to your servants for a possession, and do not bring us beyond the Jordan. 
6 And Moses said to the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Will your brothers go to war while you stay here. 
7 Why do you discourage the hearts of the children of Israel who must go to the land that Yahweh has given them. 
8 Thus did your fathers when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to examine the land. 
9 For when they went up into the valley of Eshcol and examined the land, then they discouraged the hearts of the children of Israel that they would not go into the land that Yahweh had given to them. 
10 And the anger of Yahweh was kindled the same day, and he swore in the following words. 
11 None of these men who came out of Egypt and who are aged from twenty and upward will see the land that I swore to give to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, because they have not fully follow me. 
12 Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and Joshua the son of Nun. For they have fully followed the way of Yahweh. 
13 And Yahweh was very angry with Israel, and caused them to wander in the wilderness for forty years until the whole generation that had done evil in the sight of Yahweh was consumed. 
14 And behold, you replace your fathers as an offspring of sinful men, to increase the fierceness of the anger of Yahweh against Israel. 
15 For if you turn away from him, then he will continue to leave the people in the wilderness and you will cause the destruction of all these people. 
16 And they came to Moses and said: We will build sheepfolds here for our sheep and for our cattle, and cities for our children. 
17 But we ourselves will be ready and armed to go before the children of Israel until we have brought them in their place. But our children will live in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the country. 
18 We will not return to our homes until the children of Israel have inherited each of his inheritance. 
19 And we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan and forward, because we will have our inheritance on this side of the Jordan to the east. 
20 And Moses said to them: If you will do this, that is to say, if you will arm yourself and go before Yahweh to war. 
21 And if all of you will pass beyond the Jordan before Yahweh until he has driven out his enemies from his sight. 
22 And if you return only after the land has been subdued before Yahweh, then you will be blameless toward Yahweh and toward Israel, and this land will be your possession before Yahweh. 
23 But if you will not do so, behold you have sinned against Yahweh. And be sure that your sin will have consequences. 
24 Now build cities for your children and folds for your sheep, and do what you said. 
25 Then the children of Gad and the children of Reuben said to Moses, Your servants will do as my lord commands. 
26 Our children, and our wives, and our sheep, and all our cattle, they will remain in the cities of Gilead. 
27 But your servants will all go armed before Yahweh to fight in the war, as my lord says. 
28 And Moses gave orders concerning them to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the chiefs of the father's houses of the tribes of the children of Israel. 
29 And Moses said to them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben go with you beyond the Jordan, all armed to fight before Yahweh, then when the land is submitted before you, you will give them the land of Gilead for possession. 
30 But if they do not go in arms with you, then they will have their possessions among you in the land of Canaan. 
31 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, We will do what Yahweh has spoken to your servants. 
32 We will go armed before Yahweh into the land of Canaan, so that the possession of our inheritance may be on this side of the Jordan. 
33 And Moses gave to the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, and to one half of the tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, he gave the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land with its cities and with the territories of the cities of the countries all around. 
34 Then the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer. 
35 And Atroth, and Shophan, and Jazer, and Jogbehah. 
36 And Beth-nimrah, and Beth-haran. All were fortified cities. And also folds for sheep. 
37 And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim. 
38 And Nebo, and Baal-meon, and changed their names, and Sibmah. And they gave other names to the cities that they built. 
39 And the children [of the families] of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead and took it, and drove out the Amorites who lived there. 
40 And Moses gave Gilead to [the families of] Machir the son of Manasseh who then dwelt there. 
41 And Jair the son [from the families] of Manasseh went and took the small towns there, and called them Havoth Jair. 
42 Also Nobah went and took Kenath with its towns and called it Nobah, after his name.
