1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Make two silver trumpets for you. You will make them in one piece, and you will use them for the gathering of the congregation and for the departure of the camp. 
3 And when they blow them, all the congregation will gather around you before the tent door of the meeting. 
4 But if a single trumpet sounds, then the princes who are chiefs over the thousands of Israel will gather to you. 
5 And if you blow an alarm, then those who camp in the east side will leave. 
6 And if you blow an alarm a the second time, then those who camp in the south will march. For an alarm must be blown to initiate the departure of the camp. 
7 But for the gathering of the congregation, you will blow without alarm. 
8 And the sons of Aaron the priests will blow the trumpets. This will be a perpetual law for you and for your descendants. 
9 And when you go to war in your land against the enemy who will fight you, you will blow an alarm with the trumpets. And you will be remembered before Yahweh your God, and you will be saved from your enemies. 
10 Also in your day of your gladness, and in the days of your festivals, and in the beginning of your months at the new moons, you will blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and your peace offerings. And they will be to you for a remembrance before your God. I am Yahweh your God. 
11 And on the twentieth day of the second month in the second year, the cloud rose from over the tabernacle of the testimony namely the tent of meeting. 
12 And the children of Israel set out from the wilderness of Sinai on their journey. And the cloud stopped in the wilderness of Paran. 
13 Thus they made this first departure at the commandment of Yahweh given by the hand of Moses. 
14 And the banner of the camp of the children of Judah went first, according to their divisions. And Nahshon the son of Amminadab was over his tribe. 
15 And over the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
16 And over the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon. 
17 And the tabernacle was taken down. And the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari departed, carrying the tabernacle. 
18 And then the banner of Reuben's camp set out, according to their divisions. And over his tribe was Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
19 And over the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
20 And over the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
21 And the Kohathites set out, carrying the sanctuary. And the tabernacle was set up to await their arrival. 
22 Then the banner of the camp of the children of Ephraim set out, according to their divisions. And over his tribe was Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
23 And over the tribe of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
24 And over the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
25 And the banner of the camp of the children of Dan went forth, gathering together all the tribe according to their divisions. And over the tribe was Ahiezer the son of Ammischaddai. 
26 And over the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
27 And over the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan. 
28 It was the departure of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they marched. 
29 And then Moses said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite father in law of Moses: We are going to the place of which Yahweh has said, 'I will give it to you'. Come with us and we will do you good, for Yahweh has promised to do good to Israel. 
30 And Hobab answered him: I will not go, but I will depart to my own country and to my fatherland. 
31 And Moses said: Leave us not, I pray you. For you know the places where we camp in the wilderness, and therefore you can serve as our guide. 
32 And if you come with us, we will make you enjoy the good that Yahweh will do for us. 
33 And they left the mountain of Yahweh, and journeyed three days. And the ark of the covenant of Yahweh went before them the three days of the journey, to seek for them a place of rest. 
34 And the cloud of Yahweh was over them by day, when they left the camp. 
35 And when the ark was leaving, Moses said: Rise up Yahweh, and let your enemies be scattered, and let those who hate you flee from your face. 
36 And when it was put down, he said: Return, O Yahweh, to the myriads of thousands of Israel.
