1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 Number the sons of Kohath among the sons of Levi, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers. 
3 From the age of thirty to the age of fifty, all those who are fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
4 These are the duties of the sons of Kohath in the tent of meeting about the most holy things. 
5 When the congregation leaves the camp, Aaron and his sons will come and remove the veil, and cover the ark of the testimony with it. 
6 And they will put a covering of sealskin on it, and will spread over it a cloth entirely of blue material. Then they will place the bars of the ark. 
7 And they will spread a blue cloth on the table of shewbread, and put on it the dishes, and the incense cups, and the chalices, and their coverings. And the bread will always be there. 
8 And they will spread a covering of scarlet over these things, and cover the same with a covering of sealskin. And they will place the bars of the table. 
9 Then they will take a cloth of blue and cover the candlestick of light, and its lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuffdishes, and all its oil vases there which are for the service. 
10 And they will put it with all its utensils in a covering of sealskin. Then they will place it on the bars. 
11 And they will spread a cloth of bleu on the golden altar, and cover it with a covering of sealskin. Then they will place the bars of the golden altar. 
12 And they will take all its utensils that are used for service in the sanctuary, and put them in a cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of sealskin. Then they will place them on the bars. 
13 And they will remove the ashes from the altar, and spread a purple cloth on it. 
14 And they will put on it all the utensils intended for its service: the braziers, the flesh hooks, the shovels, the basins, and all the utensils of the altar. And they will spread on it a covering of sealskin. Then they will place the bars of the altar. 
15 After Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all the utensils of the sanctuary, as the camp is leaving, the sons of Kohath will come and carry them but they will not touch any holy thing lest they die. This is the function of the sons of Kohath in the tent of meeting. 
16 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest will have in his keeping the oil of the candlestick, and the fragrant incense, and the daily meal offering, and the anointing oil. And he will have under his supervision the whole tent of meeting and all that is in it, the sanctuary and its utensils. 
17 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words.  
18 You will not cut off the race of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites. 
19 But you will do this for them, that they may live and not die when they approach the most holy things: Aaron and his sons will come, and appoint each of them to his service and burden. 
20 They will not go in to see when the holy things are wrapped up, lest they die. 
21 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
22 Number also the sons of Gershon by the houses of their fathers, by their families. 
23 You will number them from thirty years old to fifty years old, all those who are fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
24 This will be the function of the families of the Gershonites, when they serve and bear burdens. 
25 They will carry the curtains of the tabernacle, and the tent of meeting, and its covering, and the covering of sealskin that is on it, and the veil of the door of the tent of meeting. 
26 And the veil of the gate of the courtyard, and the curtains of the courtyard, which are near the tabernacle and the altar, and their cords, and all the utensils for their service, and all that is made for it. This is how they will serve. 
27 All the service of the sons of the Gershonites will be at the commandment of Aaron and his sons, who will appoint them in all their service and in all their burdens. 
28 This is the service of the families of the sons of the Gershonites in the tent of meeting, and their supervision will be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
29 You will number the sons of Merari by their families, according to the houses of their fathers. 
30 You will number them from thirty years old to fifty years old, all those who are fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
31 This is their service and their burdens, for all their functions in the tent of meeting: the boards of the tabernacle, its bars, its pillars, its bases. 
32 And the pillars all around the courtyard, and their bases, and their pins, and their cords, and all the utensils which depend on them for their use. You will designate by name the objects entrusted to their care and service. 
33 This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service in the tent of meeting under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
34 Then Moses and Aaron and the princes of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites, according to their families and according to the houses of their fathers. 
35 From thirty years old to fifty years old, all those who were fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
36 They have numbered, according to their families, two thousand and seven hundred and fifty. 
37 These are those who were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all those who could serve in the tent of meeting. Moses and Aaron numbered them according to the commandment of Yahweh given by the hand Moses. 
38 And the sons of Gershon were numbered, according to their families and according to the houses of their fathers. 
39 From the age of thirty to the age of fifty, all those who were fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
40 And those who were numbered according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, were two thousand and six hundred and thirty. 
41 These are the families of the sons of Gershon who were numbered, all those who were able to serve in the tent of meeting. Moses and Aaron numbered them according to the commandment of Yahweh. 
42 Those of the families of the sons of Merari who were numbered, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers. 
43 From the age of thirty to the age of fifty, all those who were fit to do the work in the tent of meeting. 
44 Those who were numbered according to their families were three thousand and two hundred. 
45 These are the families of the sons of Merari who were numbered. Moses and Aaron numbered them according to the commandment of Yahweh given by the hand Moses. 
46 The sum of all the Levites who were numbered by Moses and Aaron and the princes of Israel, according to their families and according to the houses of their fathers. 
47 From the age of thirty to the age of fifty, everyone who was able to perform any work and serve in the tent of meeting. 
48 All those who were numbered were eight thousand and five hundred and eighty. 
49 Aaron numbered them according to the commandment of Yahweh given by the hand Moses, every one according to his service and according to his burden. Thus they were numbered from the tribe of Levi, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
