1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
2 Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When a man or a woman separates himself from others by taking the nazirite vow, to consecrate himself to Yahweh. 
3 He will abstain from wine and strong drinks. He will not drink wine vinegar, nor strong drink vinegar, nor any grape juice, nor will he eat fresh or dried grapes. 
4 During the entire time of his nazirite, he will not eat anything that comes from the vine, from the kernels to the skin of the grape. 
5 During the entire time of his nazirite the razor will not pass on his head. Until the days for which he dedicated himself to Yahweh are fulfilled, he will be holy. He will let his hair grow freely. 
6 During all the time he dedicated himself to Yahweh, he will not approach a dead body. 
7 He will not make himself unclean at the death of his father, or his mother, or his brother, or his sister, because he bears on his head the consecration of his God. 
8 During the entire time of his nazirite, he will be holy to Yahweh. 
9 If someone dies suddenly near him and his consecrated head thus becomes defiled, he will shave his head on the day of his purification. He will shave it on the seventh day. 
10 And on the eighth day he will bring to the priest two turtle doves or two young pigeons, at the door of the tent of meeting. 
11 And the priest will offer one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. And he will make atonement for him, because he has sinned through the dead. The nazirite will thus sanctify his head on that day. 
12 And he will rededicate the days of his nazirite to Yahweh, and he will offer a year old lamb as a transgress offering. And the previous days will not be numbered, because his consecration has been profaned. 
13 And this is now the law of the nazirite. On the day when he has completed the time of his nazirite, he will come at the door of the tent of meeting. 
14 And he will present his offering to Yahweh, a male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and female lamb a year old without blemish for a sin offering, and a ram without blemish for a peace offering. [Now only the burnt offering will not be eaten among all these things.]
15 And a basket of unleavened bread, and of fine flour cakes kneaded with oil, and wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil, with their ordinary meal offering and drink offering. 
16 And the priest will bring these things before Yahweh, and offer the sin offering and the burnt offering. 
17 And he will offer the ram of the peace offering to Yahweh, with the basket of unleavened bread. And the priest will offer also the meal offering and the drink offering. 
18 And the nazirite will shave the head of his consecration at the door of the tent of meeting. And he will take the hair of the head of his consecration, and put it in the fire which is under the peace offering. 
19 Then the priest will take the cooked shoulder of the ram, and an unleavened cake from the basket, and an unleavened wafer, and put them on the hands of the nazirite after he has shaved his consecration. 
20 And the priest will wave them from side to side before Yahweh. This is a holy thing for the priest with the waved breast and the heaved shoulder. And then the nazirite may drink wine. 
21 This is the law for the one who takes the vow of nazirite, and this is his offering to Yahweh for his consecration in addition to what it is able to bring. He will fulfill what is ordained for the vow he has made, according to the law of his consecration. 
22 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
23 Speak to Aaron and to his sons by saying, You will bless the children of Israel in the following way, you will say to them the following things.
24 May Yahweh bless you and keep you. 
25 May Yahweh make his face shine on you, and may he grant you his grace. 
26 May Yahweh turn his face toward you, and give you peace. 
27 They will thus put my name on the children of Israel, and I will bless them.
