1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron in the following words. 
2 The children of Israel will camp every one by his banner, under the ensigns of the house of his fathers. They will camp far away and all around the tent of meeting. 
3 On the east side towards the rising of the sun, those of the banner of the camp of Judah will encamp according to their divisions. And Nahshon the son of Amminadab will be commander of the sons of Judah. 
4 And his army consists of seventy four thousand and six hundred men, according to the count. 
5 At his side will encamp the tribe of Issachar, and Nethanel the son of Zuar will be commander of the sons of Issachar. 
6 And his army consists of fifty four thousand and four hundred men, according to the count. 
7 Then the tribe of Zebulun, and Eliab the son of Helon will be commander of the sons of Zebulun. 
8 And his army consists of fifty seven thousand and four hundred men, according to the count. 
9 The number of all these armies which will be led by Judah is one hundred eighty six thousand and four hundred men, according to their divisions. They will be the first in the march. 
10 On the south side will be the banner of the camp of Reuben according to their divisions, and the commander of the sons of Reuben will be Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
11 And his army consists of forty six thousand and five hundred men, according to the count. 
12 And at his side will encamp the tribe of Simeon, and the commander of the sons of Simeon will be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
13 And his army consists of fifty nine thousand and three hundred men, according to the count. 
14 And the tribe of Gad, and the commander of the sons of Gad will be Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
15 And his army consists of forty five thousand and six hundred and fifty men, according to the count. 
16 The number of all these armies which will be led by Reuben is one hundred fifty one thousand and four hundred and fifty men, according to their divisions. They will be second in the march. 
17 Then the tent of meeting will depart with the camp of the Levites, in the midst of the assembly in the same way as they camped. The children of Israel will follow the order in which they camped, each in his rank, according to his banner. 
18 And on the west side will be the banner of the camp of Ephraim according to their divisions, and the commander of the sons of Ephraim will be Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
19 And his army consists of forty thousand and five hundred men, according to the count. 
20 And at his side will encamp the tribe of Manasseh, and the commander of the sons of Manasseh will be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
21 And his army consists of thirty two thousand and two hundred men, according to the count. 
22 And the tribe of Benjamin, and the commander of the sons of Benjamin will be Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
23 And his army consists of thirty five thousand and four hundred men, according to the count. 
24 The number of all these armies which will be led by Ephraim is one hundred eight thousand and one hundred men, according to their divisions. They will be third in the march. 
25 And on the north side will be the banner of the camp of Dan according to their divisions, and the commander of the sons of Dan will be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
26 And his army consists of sixty two thousand and seven hundred men, according to the count. 
27 And at his side will encamp the tribe of Asher, and the commander of the sons of Asher will be Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
28 And his army consists of forty one thousand and five hundred men, according to the count. 
29 Then the tribe of Naphtali, and the commander of the sons of Naphtali will be Ahira the son of Enan. 
30 And his army consists of fifty three thousand and four hundred men, according to the count. 
31 The number of all these armies which will be led by Dan is one hundred fifty seven thousand and six hundred men. They will be the last in the march according to their banners. 
32 These are the children of Israel who were numbered, according to the houses of their fathers. All those who were numbered and who formed the army, according to their divisions, were six hundred three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
33 But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel, as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
34 And the children of Israel did according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses. This is how they camped according to their banners, and this is how they set out each with his family, according to the houses of their fathers.
