1 Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month in the second year after their departure from the land of Egypt. He spoke in the following words. 
2 Number all the congregation of the children of Israel, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names of all the males per head. 
3 From the age of twenty and upward, all those who are able of going to war in Israel. You and Aaron will number them according to their divisions. 
4 And there will be with you a man of each tribe, who is the chief of his father’s house. 
5 And these are the names of the men who will stand with you. from Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
6 And from Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
7 And from Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
8 And from Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
9 And from Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon. 
10 And from the sons of Joseph: from Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud. from Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
11 And from Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
12 And from Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
13 And from Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
14 And from Gad, Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
15 And from Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan. 
16 They were famous in the Congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers and leaders of thousands in Israel. 
17 And Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by their names. 
18 And they called together the whole assembly on the first day of the second month, who declared their relatives according to their families, and according to the houses of their fathers, counting names per head from the age of twenty and upward. 
19 And Moses numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai, as Yahweh had commanded him. 
20 Thus the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
21 And their number of the tribe of Reuben was forty six thousand and five hundred. 
22 And the sons of Simeon were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
23 And their number of the tribe of Simeon was fifty nine thousand and three hundred. 
24 And the sons of Gad were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
25 And their number of the tribe of Gad was forty five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
26 And the sons of Judah were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
27 And their number of the tribe of Judah was seventy four thousand and six hundred. 
28 And the sons of Issachar were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
29 And their number of the tribe of Issachar was fifty four thousand and four hundred. 
30 And the sons of Zebulun were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
31 And their number of the tribe of Zebulun was fifty seven thousand and four hundred. 
32 And the sons of Joseph, namely the sons of Ephraim by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war.  
33 And their number of the tribe of Ephraim was forty thousand and five hundred. 
34 And the sons of Manasseh by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
35 And their number of the tribe of Manasseh was thirty two thousand and two hundred. 
36 And the sons of Benjamin were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
37 And their number of the tribe of Benjamin was thirty five thousand and four hundred. 
38 And the sons of Dan were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
39 And their number of the tribe of Dan was sixty two thousand and seven hundred. 
40 And the sons of Asher were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
41 And their number of the tribe of Asher was forty one thousand and five hundred. 
42 And the sons of Naphtali were numbered by their generations, according to their families, according to the houses of their fathers, counting the names per head, from the age of twenty years and upward, all those who could go to war. 
43 And their number of the tribe of Naphtali was fifty three thousand and four hundred. 
44 These are those who were numbered by Moses and Aaron, and by the twelve men the princes of Israel who were each one from his fathers' house. 
45 Thus were numbered all the children of Israel, according to the houses of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all those who were able to go to war. 
46 And all those who were numbered were six hundred three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
47 But the Levites, according to the tribe of their fathers, were not numbered among them. 
48 For Yahweh had spoken to Moses in the following words. 
49 You will not number the tribe of Levi, and you will not take the sum of them among the children of Israel in this count. 
50 But entrust the tabernacle of the testimony to the care of the Levites, and all its utensils and all that belongs to it. They will carry the tabernacle and all its utensils, and they will serve there, and they will dwell around the tabernacle. 
51 When the tabernacle moves forward, the Levites will dismantle it. And when the tabernacle is set up, the Levites will set it up. And the stranger who approaches it will be punished with death. 
52 And the children of Israel will camp each in his camp. That is, each by his banner, according to their divisions. 
53 But the Levites will encamp around the tabernacle of the testimony, so that my wrath may not break out against the congregation of the children of Israel. And the Levites will keep charge of the tabernacle of the testimony. 
54 And the children of Israel did according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses. They did so.
