1 These are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that Yahweh spoke with Moses at mount Sinai. 
2 These are the names of Aaron's sons: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron who received the anointing as priests, and whom Moses consecrated to serve in the priesthood. 
4 And Nadab and Abihu died before Yahweh, when they offered strange fire before Yahweh in the wilderness of Sinai. And they had no children. And Eleazar and Ithamar served in the priesthood in the presence of Aaron, their father. 
5 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
6 Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may serve him. 
7 They will keep the charge with him, the charge of the whole congregation before the tent of meeting to do the service of the tabernacle. 
8 And they will take care of all the utensils of the tent of meeting, and of the duties of the children of Israel by doing the service of the tabernacle. 
9 And you will give the Levites to Aaron and to his sons, for they are given to him in full from among the children of Israel. 
10 And you will appoint Aaron and his sons to perform the duties of their priesthood. And the stranger who approaches will be punished with death. 
11 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
12 Behold I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel. For all the Levites and all the firstborn among males of the children of Israel will be mine. 
13 Because every firstborn among males is mine. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I have consecrated to myself all the firstborn in Israel, both men and animals. They will belong to me. I am Yahweh. 
14 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai in the following words. 
15 Number the children of Levi according to the houses of their fathers, in their families. You will number all the males, from the age of one month and upward. 
16 And Moses numbered them according to the word of Yahweh, as he was commanded. 
17 And these are the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. 
18 These are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei. 
19 These are the sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
20 And the sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to the houses of their fathers. 
21 And from Gershon came the family of Libnites and the family of Shimeites. These are the families of the Gershonites. 
22 The number of all those who were counted, counting all males from the age of one month and upward, was seven thousand and five hundred. 
23 The families of the Gershonites camped behind the tabernacle to the west.
24 The captain and elder of the house of the Gershonites will be Eliasaph the son of Lael. 
25 And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tent of meeting will be the tabernacle, and the tent, and the covering, and the veil that is at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 
26 And the veil of the door of the courtyard and the curtains of the courtyard, near the tabernacle and near the altar, and the cords of it for all the service there. 
27 And from Kohath came the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites. These are the families of the Kohathites. 
28 The number of all the males from the age of one month and upward was eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary. 
29 The families of the sons of Kohath camped on the south side of the tabernacle. 
30 The captain and elder of the house and families of the Kohathites will be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel. 
31 And their charge will be the ark, and the table, and the candlestick, and the altars, and the utensils used to serve in the sanctuary, and the veil, and everything that served there. 
32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest will be chief captain of the Levites, overseeing those in charge of the sanctuary. 
33 And from Merari came the family of the Mahlites and the family of the Mushites. These are the families of Merari. 
34 The number of all the males from the age of one month and upward was six thousand and two hundred. 
35 The captain and elder of the house of the families of Merari will be Zuriel the son of Abihail. They camped on the north side of the tabernacle. 
36 And the charge of the sons of Merari will be the boards of the tabernacle, and its bars, and its pillars, and its bases, and all the utensils there, and all that is used there. 
37 And the pillars of the courtyard all around, and their bases, and their pins, and their cords. 
38 And at the front of the tabernacle on the east side, I say, before the tent of meeting on the east side, Moses and Aaron and his sons will camp and they will keep the charge of the sanctuary and the charge of the children of Israel. And the stranger who will come near will be put to death. 
39 The number of all the Levites who were numbered by Moses and Aaron at the commandment of Yahweh, according to their families, all the males from the age of a month and upward were twenty two thousand. 
40 And Yahweh said to Moses, Number all the firstborn males among the children of Israel, from a month old and upward, and number them by their names. 
41 And you will take the Levites for me in place of all the firstborn of the children of Israel, I am Yahweh, and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the cattle of the children of Israel. 
42 And Moses numbered all the firstborn among the children of Israel, as Yahweh commanded him. 
43 And all the firstborn males from the age of one month and upward, repeated by name, were twenty two thousand and two hundred and seventy three. 
44 And Yahweh spoke to Moses in the following words. 
45 Take the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle. And the Levites will be mine. I am Yahweh. 
46 And for the redemption of the two hundred and seventy three who exceed the number of the Levites among the firstborn of the children of Israel. 
47 You will take five shekels per head. You will take it according to the weight of the sanctuary. One shekel is equal to twenty gerahs. 
48 And you will give this money to Aaron and his sons, for the redemption of those who exceed the number of the Levites. 
49 Thus Moses took the money for the redemption of those who exceeded the number of those redeemed by the Levites. 
50 He took the money from the firstborn of the children of Israel, one thousand and three hundred and sixty five shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary. 
51 And Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and to his sons according to the word of Yahweh, as Yahweh commanded Moses.
