1 And Moses spoke to the chiefs of the tribes of the children of Israel by saying, This is what Yahweh has commanded. 
2 When a man makes a vow to Yahweh, or makes an oath to bind oneself by a commitment, then he will not break his promise but he will do according to all that proceeds from his mouth. 
3 If a woman makes a vow to Yahweh and binds herself by a commitment while she is in her father's house in the time of her youth. 
4 Then if her father know the vow she made and the commitment by which she is bonded, and if her father hold his peace towards her, then all her vows will be valid and any commitment by which she has bonded herself will be valid. 
5 But if her father disapproves her on the same day that he finds out, then all her vows and all the commitments by which she has bonded herself will have no value. And Yahweh will forgive her because her father disapproved of her. 
6 And if she is married when she makes a vow or binds herself by a word that escapes her lips. 
7 Then if her husband finds out and hold his peace towards her the very day that he finds out, then all her vows will be valid and any commitment by which she has bonded herself will be valid. 
8 But if her husband disapproves her on the same day that he finds out, then he will cancel the vow she made and the words that escaped her lips by which she was bonded. And Yahweh will forgive her. 
9 But every vow of a widow or of her who is divorced, any commitment by which she has bonded herself will remain in force for her. 
10 And if she vowed or bonded herself with an oath in her husband's family. 
11 And her husband finds out and hold his peace towards her, and does not disapprove her, then all her vows will be valid and any commitment by which she has bonded herself will be valid. 
12 But if her husband cancels them on the same day that he becomes aware of them, then every vow and every commitment that came out of her lips will have no value because her husband canceled them. And Yahweh will forgive her. 
13 So regarding any vow and oath or commitment that she has made to humble her soul, her husband can establish it and her husband can cancel it. 
14 But if her husband hold his peace towards her from day to day, then he thus establishes all her vows or all her commitments that she made. He has confirmed them because he kept silent towards her on the same day that he found out about them. 
15 But if he cancels them after the day in which he becomes aware of them, then he will bear her iniquity. 
16 These are the ordinances which Yahweh commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, and between the father and his daughter when she is in her youth and in her father’s house.
