1 Therefore, my brothers and dearly beloved, you who are my joy and crown, stand firm in the Lord, my beloved. 
2 I exhort Euodia and I exhort Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord. 
3 And I beseech you also, true yokefellow, to help those women who have labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with the others of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. 
4 Rejoice in the Lord always. I repeat it, rejoice. 
5 Let your gentleness be evident to all men. The Lord is near. 
6 Do not be anxious about anything. But in every situation, by prayer and supplication, present your requests to God with thanksgiving. 
7 And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus. 
8 Therefore, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is fair, whatever is pure, whatever comes from love, whatever is is edifying, whatever is virtuous and praiseworthy, let such things be the only contents of your thoughts. 
9 What you have learned and received from me, what you have heard me explain and what you have seen in me, put it into practice and the God of peace will be with you. 
10 And now, I rejoiced greatly in the Lord that you were finally able to renew the expression of your feelings for me. You had always thought about doing it, but you were lacking opportunity. 
11 It is not because you have provided for some of my needs on this occasion that I am saying this. For I have learned to be content in the state in which I am. 
12 I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to be in abundance. I have learned the secret of contentment in all circumstances, whether one is satiated or hungry, living in abundance or in poverty. 
13 I can do all things through him who strengthens me. 
14 However, you have done well to have fellowship with my affliction. 
15 You yourselves know, Philippians, that in the early days of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but only you. 
16 For even in Thessalonica you sent me aid more than once when I was in need. 
17 It is not that I want to get gifts from you. But I want you to have the benefit that comes from giving. 
18 I have received all things, and I have more than enough. I am amply supplied, having received by Epaphroditus the gifts that you have sent. They are a pleasant smell, a sacrifice that God accepts and which is pleasing to him. 
19 And my God will supply every need of yours, according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus. 
20 To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
21 Greet all the saints in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me send you greetings.  
22 All the saints send you greetings, especially those who belong to Caesar’s household. 
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
