1 Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the bishops and deacons. 
2 May grace and peace be given to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
3 I thank my God for all the memory that I keep of you. 
4 Never ceasing to manifest my joy in all my prayers for you all. 
5 Concerning the fellowship that you have in the gospel from the first day until now. 
6 I am convinced of the fact that he who has begun this good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ. 
7 It is fair that I think so of you all, because I carry you in my heart, whether in my chains, or in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all who have been partakers of my grace. 
8 For God is my witness that I cherish you all with the tenderness of Jesus Christ. 
9 And what I ask in my prayers is that your love may increase more and more in knowledge and all discernment. 
10 So that you may approve of things that are excellent, and so that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ. 
11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are produced through Jesus, to the glory and praise of God. 
12 I want you to know, brothers, that what happened to me actually contributed to the progress of the gospel. 
13 All the Roman guards in all the praetorium and everyone else know that it is for Christ that I am in chains. 
14 And most of the brothers in the Lord, being encouraged by my chains, have more confidence to proclaim the word without fear. [That is to say, they are encouraged by the fact that they observe that even the Romans become disciples by understanding the reasons why the Jews want to harm me and to make me imprisoned.] 
15 It is true that some preach Christ out of jealousy and rivalry, but some others are doing it with a sincere heart. 
16 These ones act out of love, knowing that I am established for the defense of the gospel. 
17 While others proclaim Christ insincerely, with the hope of causing me some tribulation in my bonds. [That is to say, they hope that this will prevent the anger that some Jews have against me from being placated.] 
18 What difference does it make. In any case, whether in appearance or sincerely, Christ is no less proclaimed. And I rejoice at this, and I will continue to rejoice.  
19 For I know that this will turn to my salvation, through your prayers and the help of the spirit of Jesus Christ [which is in me]. 
20 According to my firm expectation and my hope that I will not be ashamed of anything. For I know with full confidence that now as always, Christ will be glorified in my body, whether by my life or by my death. 
21 For Christ is my life, and death is a gain to me. 
22 But if it is useful for my work that I continue to live in the flesh for a certain time, then I cannot say what I prefer. 
23 I am pressed on both sides. I have the desire to depart and be with Christ, and it is by far the best. 
24 But it is more necessary for me to remain in the flesh because of you. [That is to say, I have not yet completely finished the work that the Lord wants me to do for the spread of the gospel.] 
25 And I am convinced, I know that I will remain in the flesh and continue with you all, for your progress and for your joy in the faith. 
26 So that you may rejoice greatly in Christ Jesus because of me, when I come again to you.
27 Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come to see you or remain absent, I may hear of you that you remain firm in one spirit, fighting with one soul for the faith of the gospel. 
28 Without letting yourself be frightened in any way by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you a work of salvation, and all this is from God. 
29 For it has been given to you from Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer because of him. 
30 Having the same fight that you saw in me, and that you now hear that I am still fighting.
