1 Therefore if there is some consolation in Christ, some comfort of love, some fellowship of the Spirit, some compassion and mercy. [Now Christ is made up of all these things.] 
2 Then make my joy perfect by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in the Spirit, of one mind. 
3 Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. Be humble, and honor others more than yourselves. 
4 Let each of you not seek only his own benefit, but also that of others. 
5 Have within you this state of mind which was also in Jesus Christ. 
6 He who, existing in the form of God, did not consider the fact of being equal to God as a sufficient reason to look at others with disdain. 
7 He divested himself of his glorious appearance to appear with the likeness of men, taking the form of a servant. 
8 And having appeared as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even the death of the cross. 
9 Therefore God has highly exalted him, and has given him a name that is above all the other names. 
10 So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, both in heaven and on earth, and under the earth. 
11 And every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 
12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. 
13 For it is God who works in you, both to will and to act, for his good pleasure. [That is to say, you must simply be afraid of offending the Holy Spirit of God, who is himself called God, and it is this Holy Spirit who will work within you in everything that you do.] 
14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings. 
15 So that you may be blameless and pure, children of God without blemish in the midst of a treacherous and perverse generation, among whom you shine like stars in the sky [by the fact that you are different], clinging to the word of life. 
16 So that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, concerning the fact that I have not run in vain since I have not laboured in vain. 
17 Therefore, although I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and I rejoice with you all. 
18 And you too should rejoice and be glad with me.
19 I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I myself may be comforted by hearing about you. 
20 For I have no one else like Timothy, who genuinely cares for you. 
21 Others are interested only in their own lives. They do not care about the work of Christ Jesus. 
22 You know the kind of person Timothy is. He has served with me in telling the gospel, like a son with his father.  
23 Therefore, I hope to send him to you as soon as I know the evolution of my situation. 
24 And I have this confidence in the Lord that I myself also will come soon. 
25 But I thought it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother, my fellow worker, my fellow soldier, your messenger whom you sent to take care of my needs. 
26 For he longed to see you all, and was greatly troubled because you had heard that he had been sick. 
27 He was indeed sick, and very near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, so that I would not have sorrow on sorrow. 
28 Therefore I sent him with all the more eagerness, so that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I myself may be less sad. 
29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men. 
30 For it is for the work of Christ that he was near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.
