1 And now, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. I do not tire of writing the same things to you, and for you it is beneficial. 
2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of false circumcised [that is to say, false Jews]. 
3 For we are the true circumcised, we who worship God only by the Spirit of God. We do not put our trust in the flesh, because we glory only in Christ Jesus [that is to say, we do not place our trust in any person, but only in the holy commandment of the Lord]. 
4 And I behave in this way despite the fact that I have arguments that could incite me to behave differently by placing my trust in the flesh. If anyone else thinks that he has reasons to put his trust in the flesh, then I have many more reasons than such a person. [That is to say, if a person thinks that it is possible to triumph in his initiatives because of the nature of the works that he does and not because of the quality of the justifications that he possesses while he is doing what he is doing, then I have many more reasons than such a person.] 
5 For I had been circumcised on the eighth day after my birth, and I am of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews. Concerning the law given by Moses, I belonged to the sect of the Pharisees. 
6 As for zeal, I persecuted the church [because the disciples of Jesus were questioning my certainty that God cannot love everyone in the same way]. I was irreproachable regarding the notion of righteousness that is described in the law that Moses gave to the children of Israel. 
7 But regarding those things that I considered to be an advantage in my relationship with God, I now consider them as a loss because I have understood the content of the teachings of Christ. [Now it was not a loss when Jesus had not yet come into the world, and those who behaved in this way received a legacy in the genealogy of the knowledge taught by Christ. But the persons who do those things after the revelation of Jesus are no longer building an admirable legacy for themselves.] 
8 And even I look at all things as a loss, because of the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have renounced all things, and I regard them as dung, so that I may gain Christ. 
9 And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, even if it is the one that I learned from the law given by Moses and which describes the quantities and qualities of the things that must be offered to God alone, but having the righteousness which is through the faith in Christ, which comes from God by faith.
10 So that I may know Christ, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, by becoming similar to the person whom he was in his death. 
11 So that I may somehow attain the resurrection from the dead. 
12 It is not that I have already won the prize, or that I have already achieved perfection. But I run, with the goal of trying to seize that for which I also have been seized by Christ Jesus. 
13 Brothers, I do not behave as if I had already attained it. For I do the following thing: I do not let myself be overwhelmed by the things of the past on which I can no longer act, and I strive to be pleasing to the Lord in all present situations and concerning all the things on which I can act. 
14 So I run toward the goal, in order to win the prize of the heavenly calling of God in Christ Jesus. 
15 Let us therefore have this same mind, all of us who are perfect.  And if you are of another opinion, then God will enlighten you on this question. 
16 Only, at the level that we have reached, let us walk by imitating the love of Christ. 
17 Brothers, be my imitators, and turn your gaze toward those who follow the example that you have in us. 
18 For there are many who walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. I have often spoken to you about it, and I speak of it now again while weeping. 
19 Their end will be ruin. Their god is their belly, and they glory in what is their shame. They only think about earthly things. 
20 As for us, we consider ourselves citizens of the heaven, from where also we wait for the savior, namely the Lord Jesus Christ. 
21 Who will transform the body of our humiliation, to make it like the body of his glory, by the power that he has to subject all things to himself.
