1 The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the mouth is from Yahweh. 
2 All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes [despite the fact that he may know that they are not publicly justifiable], but Yahweh weighs the spirits. 
3 Commit your works to Yahweh, and your thoughts will be directed. 
4 Yahweh has made everything for a purpose. Yes, even the wicked for the day of evil. 
5 Each person who has a proud heart is an abomination to Yahweh. Surely he will not be unpunished. 
6 An iniquity which is already committed can only be purged by the mercy and the faithfulness of Yahweh. But he who fears Yahweh turns away from evil. 
7 When the ways of a man please Yahweh, that is to say when a man has a pure heart, Yahweh causes even the deeds of his enemies to prevent the destruction of his soul. 
8 Better is a little with righteousness, than a great benefit with injustice. 
9 A man's heart plans his way, but it is Yahweh who directs his steps.
10 The word that comes from the lips of a king is received as a word of God by his faithful servants. Whatever his mouth declares is supposed to be necessary and right. 
11 All the weights in the bag are the work of Yahweh. But a just weight and a just scale are of the spirit of Yahweh [that is to say, these are the possessions of a person who fears Yahweh].  
12 It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness, for the throne is established by righteousness. [Evil is that which is intentional and unjustifiable in the eyes of any assembly of saints, and such an assembly knows that each one acts according to his particular knowledge and circumstances] 
13 The servants who have righteous lips delight the king. For each king wants each of his servant to speak without seeking to deceive the rulers of the kingdom. 
14 The wrath of a king is like the messengers of death, and a wise servant will seek to pacify it. 
15 All the servants of the kingdom are invigorated when the king’s countenance reveals that he is happy. And a favor of a king towards his people is like a cloud of the latter rain. 
16 Wisdom is to be desired more than gold. Yes, understanding is much better than silver. 
17 The way of the righteous is to depart from evil. The one who guards his way is guarding his soul. 
18 Arrogance goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. 
19 It is better to be humble and to walk among the humble, than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
20 He who observes the instruction will find good, and he who trusts in Yahweh is blessed. 
21 He who has a wise heart is simply known as one of the prudent persons. And the sweetness of the lips promotes learning. 
22 Wisdom is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the fool lets himself be taught by folly. 
23 The heart of the wise teaches his mouth, and knowledge is increased when his lips speak. 
24 Fair words are like a honeycomb. They are sweet to the soul, and they refresh the bones. 
25 There is a way that seems right to a man who has not received the knowledge of instruction, but it leads to the paths of death. 
26 Whatever a person is doing, he is actually doing it to satisfy one of his own desires. For the mouth of that desire urges him. 
27 A wicked man plots evil, and the words of his lips are like a burning fire. 
28 A deceitful person desires to stir up quarrel, and a whisperer can separate close friends. 
29 A wicked man entices his neighbor in order to lead him into a way that is not good.
30 He who closes his eyes to think is conceiving a reprehensible thing. And if he bites his lips then he has already done evil in the sight of God [since his lips that have been bitten can serve as witnesses].
31 . 
32 He who is slow to anger is better than a mighty man. He who rules his own spirit in order to not let oneself be under the control of circumstances is better than he who takes a city.
33 One may cast lots in order to make choices, but any answer obtained in this way comes also from Yahweh.
