1 A good reputation is better than great riches. Yes, a good name is better than silver and gold. 
2 The rich and the poor meet together. Yahweh is the maker of them all. 
3 A prudent man foresees the evil and hides himself, but the simple-minded goes on and is punished. 
4 The reward of humility and of the fear of Yahweh is wealth, and glory, and life. 
5 Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse, but he who guards his soul will be far from them. 
6 Teach a child the way that he should go, and he will not depart from it when he is old. 
7 The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender. 
8 He who sows injustice will reap destruction, and the rod of his anger will fail. 
9 A man whose eye is kind will be blessed, because he gives of his bread to the poor. 
10 Cast out the scoffer, and strife will cease. Yes, contention and ignominy will cease. 
11 He who loves to have a pure heart and whose lips are gracious will be the friend of the king. 
12 The eyes of Yahweh preserve each of those who have knowledge, but he overthrows the plans of the transgressors.
13 The sluggard man says: There is a lion outside, I will be killed in the streets if I want to do a work. 
14 The mouth of a strange woman is a deep pit. He who is abhorred by Yahweh will fall into it. 
15 Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. But the rod of correction, namely all the ways to express disapproval, will drive it far from him. 
16 He who oppresses the poor in order to increase one's wealth or in order to give to the rich, the same will surely become poor. 
17 Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise. Apply your heart to my knowledge. 
18 For it is good for you to keep them within you in order to establish them on your lips.
19 I am instructing you today, you to whom I am speaking now, so that your trust may be placed in Yahweh. 
20 Have I not already written for you counsels and meditations. 
21 In order to teach you unquestionable things, namely the words of truth, and so that you may speak truthfully to anyone who interacts with you. 
22 Do not rob the powerless although you may easily do it since he is powerless. Do not discriminate against them in judgments. 
23 For Yahweh will defend their cause, and despoil the soul of those who despoil them. 
24 Do not become a friend of an angry man, and do not walk with a furious man. 
25 Lest you become accustomed to his ways, and get the destruction of your soul. 
26 Do not be one of those who strike hands, or who become surety for debts. 
27 If you have no means of paying, then why would you let your bed be removed from under you. 
28 Do not move the ancient boundaries that your fathers have set. 
29 .
