1 The wicked flees when no one pursues him, but the righteous is bold as a lion.
2 The multiplication of transgressions in a land can cause the people to have many wicked leaders. And the mercy of God can be prolonged on a people because of a leader who has understanding and knowledge. 
3 A poor man who oppresses the poor is like a sweeping rain that causes a lack of food. 
4 Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law are angry with them. 
5 Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek Yahweh understand all things. 
6 The poor man who walks in his integrity is better than the man who is rich and who perverts his ways. 
7 A son who keeps the law is wise, and the one who is a companion of riotous men shames his father. 
8 He who increases his riches by interest and usury gathers it for him who has pity on the poor. 
9 He who turns away his ear from hearing the law is so distasteful in the sight of Yahweh that even his prayer is an abomination. 
10 He who tries to lead an upright person into an evil way will fall into the pit he has dug, and the upright will inherit good. 
11 The rich man is wise in his own eyes, but the poor who has understanding and who interacts directly with him will probe him. 
12 When the righteous triumph, there is great glory. When the wicked rise up, each one hides himself by becoming more careful. 
13 He who hides his sins will not prosper. But he who confesses them in the manner indicated by the law and who forsakes them will obtain mercy. 
14 Blessed is the man who is always in fear. But he who hardens his heart falls into evil. 
15 As a roaring lion and a hungry bear, so is a wicked who rules over a poor people. 
16 A prince without understanding multiplies acts of oppression, but he who hates covetousness will prolong his days. 
17 A man burdened with the innocent blood of another is fleeing to the pit. Do not slow him down. 
18 He who walks uprightly will be saved, but he who is perverse in his ways will fall suddenly. 
19 He who tills his land will be satisfied with food, but he who follows worthless things will be filled with poverty. 
20 A faithful man will abound with blessings, but he who makes haste to be rich cannot prevent himself from transgressing. 
21 It is not good to have respect for the face of a person when exercising judgment. But there is such a person who commits a sin in order to obtain a piece of bread. 
22 A covetous man hastens to be rich, and does not know that poverty will come on him. 
23 He who rebukes others with justice when he has the right to do so will find more favor afterwards than he whose tongue is flattering. 
24 He who robs his father or his mother, and who says 'It is not a sin', the same is a companion of the destroyer. 
25 He who has a proud heart stirs up strife, but he who trusts in Yahweh will be satisfied. 
26 He who imagines his own wisdom is a fool, but he who walks in the wisdom of Yahweh will be saved. 
27 He who gives to the poor will not lack, but he who hides his eyes will have many curses. 
28 When the wicked rise up, each one hides himself by becoming more careful. And when they perish, the righteous increase.
