1 A wise son listens to his father's instruction, but a scorner does not pay attention to reproof. [And God is the father of all.] 
2 A man will enjoy good by the fruit of his mouth, but the soul of the transgressors will suffer violence. 
3 He who guards his mouth guards his life, and he who opens wide his lips runs to destruction. 
4 The soul of the diligent will be satisfied, but the soul of the sluggard desires what his work does not allow him to obtain. 
5 The righteous hates the word of falseness, but the wicked causes slander and shame. 
6 Righteousness preserves the one who is upright in his way, and wickedness destroys the sinner. 
7 There is one who acts like a rich despite the fact that he has nothing. And there is another who acts like a poor despite the fact that he has great possessions.
8 There are rich people who think they can pay a ransom for their lives, and there are poor people who do not listen to reprimand because they want to get rich. 
9 The light of the righteous will shine, but the lamp of the wicked will be extinguished. 
10 A quarrel only occurs because there is arrogance in at least one of the parties involved, and wisdom is with those who listen to good advice. 
11 Wealth that is gotten by vanity will go away, but the product of righteous work will increase. 
12 A hope that is deferred makes the heart sick, but a righteous desire that is fulfilled is a tree of life.
13 He who despises the word [of God] will be destroyed, and he who fears the commandment will be rewarded. 
14 The teaching of the wise is a source of life, it causes to turn away from the snares of death. 
15 Good understanding will give favor, but the ways of the transgressors will be hated. 
16 Every prudent man considers knowledge, but the fool shows foolishness. 
17 A wicked messenger falls into evil, but a faithful ambassador causes a feeling of well being. 
18 Poverty and shame in the life are the portion of him who does not consider the reproof of God, for he who heeds reproof will be honored. 
19 The accomplishment of a desire is sweet to the soul, and it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
20 He who walks with wise men becomes wise, but the companion of fools is in trouble. 
21 Misfortune pursues the legacies of sinners, but prosperity will reward the righteous. 
22 A good man will give an inheritance to his children's children, but the riches of the sinner is laid up for the righteous. 
23 The poor and honest man knows how to appreciate the value of what his field produces, but there is one who perishes by reason of injustice. 
24 He who spares his rod hates his son, for he who loves him seeks to discipline him early. 
25 The righteous is satisfied with what he has to eat, but the belly of the wicked multiplies his desires.
