1 Does not wisdom cry out. Does not understanding lift up her voice. 
2 She stands on the top of the high places by the road, at the crossroads of the paths. 
3 She cries at the gates, at the entrance to the city, at the entrance of the doors. 
4 I cry to you, O men. I lift up my voice to the children of men. 
5 O you the simple-minded, understand wisdom. And you the fools, learn understanding. 
6 Listen, for I will speak of excellent things. My lips are opened to teach what is right. 
7 For my mouth will speak the truth, because my lips abhors wickedness. 
8 All the words of my mouth are conceived in righteousness. There is nothing crooked or perverse in them. 
9 They are all clear and unequivocal for the one who has understanding, they are all right for those who have found knowledge. 
10 Prefer my instruction rather than silver, and knowledge rather than pure gold. 
11 For wisdom is better than precious stones, and no treasure is comparable to her. 
12 I the wisdom, I dwell in prudence and I possess counsel and knowledge. 
13 The fear of Yahweh is to hate evil. Pride and arrogance, and the perverse mouth, I hate all the ways of evil. 
14 Counsel and knowledge are mine. I am understanding, and strength is mine. 
15 It is by me that the admired kings establish their kingships, and princes decree what is right. 
16 By me are established the works of princes, and of nobles, and of all the judges of the earth. 
17 I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently find me. 
18 Wealth and honor are with me. Yes, the lasting wealth of righteousness. 
19 My fruit is better than gold, better than fine gold. The reward that I give is better than pure silver. 
20 I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of equity. 
21 In order to cause those who love me to inherit wealth, in order to fill their treasuries. [In order to give them a useful legacy.] 
22 Yahweh created me at the beginning of his work, before his earliest works. 
23 I was established from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth was. 
24 I was brought forth when there were no depths, when there were no fountains filled with water. 
25 Before the first mountains were established, before the hills were, I was brought forth. 
26 He had not yet made the earth, nor the open places, nor the first atom of the dust of the world. 
27 I was there when he established the heavens, when he set a circle on the face of the depth. 
28 When he established the clouds above, when he strengthened the fountains of the depth. 
29 When he set a boundary to the sea, so that the waters should not transgress his commandment. When he laid the foundations of the earth. 
30 I was at work with him. I was daily his delight, rejoicing continually before him. 
31 Rejoicing in his habitable earth, and finding my delight among the children of men. 
32 Now therefore listen to me, O children. For those who keep my ways are blessed. 
33 Hear instruction in order to be wise. Do not reject it. 
34 Blessed is the man who listens to me, watching daily at my gates and waiting at my doorposts. 
35 For he who finds me has found life, and will obtain the favor of Yahweh. 
36 But he who sins against me harms his own soul. All those who hate me love death.
