1 When you sit to eat with a ruler, think carefully about who is before you. 
2 And put a knife to your throat, if you are a gourmand. 
3 Do not covet his dainties, for it is a deceptive food. [For life is more than food.] 
4 Do not torment yourself with the desire to become rich. Cease to rely on your own wisdom. 
5 Do you want to pursue with your eyes what will disappear. For riches makes themselves wings, like the wings of an eagle that flies in the sky. 
6 Do not eat the bread of him who has an evil eye, and do not covet his dainty food. 
7 For as he thinks in his heart, so is he. While his heart is planning evil against you, he will say to you: Eat and drink. 
8 And he only wants you to vomit the morsel that you have eaten, and to lose your pleasant words. 
9 Speak not in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words. 
10 Do not move the ancient boundaries, and do not enter into the fields the fatherless. 
11 For their redeemer is strong. He will defend their cause against you. 
12 Open your heart to instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge. 
13 Do not hold back if you have to discipline a child. If you smite him with the rod then he will not die. 
14 For you may save his soul from Sheol by smiting him with the rod [or by giving any other proportional and publicly justifiable response in order to punish an actions that is completely immoral and totally intentional]. [For it is the response given to an offense that allows the mind of the guilty to meditate more deeply when he finds himself in comparable circumstances] 
15 My son, if your heart is wise then my own heart will rejoice. 
16 My inner part will rejoice if your lips speak only what is right. 
17 Let not your heart envy sinners, but let it fear Yahweh continuously. 
18 For surely there is a future for you if you act thus, for your hope will not be cut off. 
19 Listen, my son, and be wise. Direct your heart in the right way. 
20 Do not be among the drunkards or among the gluttons. 
21 For a drunkard and a glutton will become poor, and drowsiness will clothe a man with rags. 
22 Listen to your father who begot you [or the one who took care of you], and do not despise your mother when she is old. 
23 . 
24 The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice. He who begets a wise child will have a joy in him. 
25 Your father and your mother will be glad, she who bore you will rejoice. 
26 My son, give me your heart. Let your eyes observe my ways. 
27 For a whore is like a deep ditch, and a strange woman is like a narrow pit from which you will not be able to escape if you fall in it. 
28 She lies in wait like for a prey, and increases the number of transgressors among men. 
29 For whom are the groans caused by regret. For whom are the contentions. For whom are the murmurings. For whom are evitable wounds. For whom are the bloodshot eyes. 
30 They are for those who linger over wine, for those who are eager to taste mixed wine [for the sole purpose of obtaining pleasure and getting drunk]. 
31 Do not be seduced by the wine when you see that it is very red, and that it swings harmoniously in the cup, and that it gives pleasure by going down the throat. 
32 For in the end it will bite like a serpent, it will sting like an adder. 
33 And then your eyes will desire strange women, and your heart will speak perverse things. 
34 And you will feel like a man who is in the middle of the sea, on the top of a mast. 
35 And you will say: They have stricken me, but I have not been hurt. They have beaten me, but I have not felt it. When will I wake up. For I want more of that wine.
