1 The words of king Lemuel. The words by which his mother instructed him. 
2 What will I say to you, my son. What will I say to you, you the son of my womb. What will I say to you, O you the son whom I have desired. 
3 Do not give your strength to women, nor your ways to the pleasures that destroy kings.
4 It is not for kings, O Lemuel. It is not for kings to drink wine, nor for princes to seek strong drinks. 
5 Lest they drink and forget the law, and disregard the justice that must be given to all those who are afflicted. 
6 Give strong drinks to him who is ready to perish, and wine to him who has grief in his heart. 
7 Let him drink, so that he may forget his poverty and remember his misery no more. 
8 Open your mouth for the dumb, for the cause of all those who are powerless [when you have the possibility to do so]. 
9 Open your mouth and judge righteously. Give justice to those who are afflicted and to the poor.
10 Who can find a virtuous woman. She is of much more value than pearls.
11 The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no need of spoil. 
12 She does him good and not evil, all the days of her life. 
13 She procures wool and flax, and works willingly with her hands. 
14 She is like the ships of the merchants, she brings her food from afar. 
15 She rises while it is still night, and gives food to her household, and their tasks to her handmaids. 
16 She considers a field, and buys it. And she plants a vineyard by the fruit of her hands. 
17 She girds her waist with strength, and strengthens her arms. 
18 She perceives that her work is good. Her lamp does not go out at night. 
19 She puts her hand to the distaff, and her fingers hold the spindle. 
20 She stretches out her hand to the poor. Yes, she stretches out her hand to the needy. 
21 She is not afraid of the snow for her household. For all her household are doubly clothed. 
22 She makes herself carpets. She wears garments of fine linen and purple. 
23 Her husband is respected in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land. 
24 She makes linen garments and sells them, and she delivers belts to the merchant. 
25 She is clothed with strength and honor, and she will rejoice in the last days. 
26 She opens her mouth with wisdom, for the law of grace is on her tongue. 
27 She takes care of the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness. 
28 Her children rise up and call her blessed. And her husband also praises her. 
29 Many daughters have done virtuously, but you excel them all. 
30 Grace can be deceitful, and beauty is vain. For the woman who will be praised is the one who fears Yahweh. 
31 Reward her according to her work [O Yahweh]. Let her works praise her in the gates.
