1 The proverbs of Solomon, the son of David and king of Israel. 
2 In order to know instruction and wisdom, to discern the words of intelligence. 
3 In order to receive the instruction of wisdom, namely of righteousness and equity and honesty. 
4 In order to give understanding to the simple, in order to give discernment and knowledge to the young person. 
5 In order to recognize a proverb and its meaning, to understand the words of the wise and the hidden meanings of their dark sayings.
6 Let the wise man listen, and he will increase his knowledge. And the one who is intelligent will acquire skill.  
7 For the fear of Yahweh is the beginning of true wisdom. Fools despise the instructions of true wisdom. 
8 My son, hear the instruction of your father and do not forsake the teaching of your mother. 
9 For it will be a crown of grace for your head, and an ornament for your neck. 
10 My son, if sinners entice you then do not consent. [Do absolutely nothing if there is not in your heart a justification of which you think that it is publicly acceptable] 
11 If they say: Come with us, and we will lie in wait in order to shed innocent blood. We will secretly set a trap to bring down some persons, despite the fact that we do not have in our hearts a publicly acceptable justification for doing so. 
12 We will swallow them up alive like a grave. They will be wholly destroyed like those who go down to the pit. 
13 We will find all precious riches, and we will fill our houses with the booty. 
14 You will have your portion with us, there will be only one purse for all of us. 
15 My son, do not go in that way with them. Turn your foot away from their path. 
16 For their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood without publicly acceptable justification. 
17 But it is in vain that one spread the net to catch any bird that can fly, if it has eyes open to see the design of the trap. 
18 And in addition, it is against their own blood that they set up snares. They lurk against their own lives. 
19 It is thus with every man who is greedy of wealth. Covetousness destroys those who indulge in it. 
20 Wisdom cries out in the streets, she utters her voice in the public places.
21 She cries out at the entrance of the noisy places. She makes the following words hear at the gates in the city. 
22 How long will you love foolishness, O you the fools. How long will scoffers ridicule wisdom. How long will the fools hate knowledge. 
23 Turn to hear my reproof, for I desire to pour out my spirit on you and to make you understand my words. 
24 But I call and you refuse, I stretch out my hand and you do not heed. 
25 For you despise all my instructions, and do not meditate on my reproof. 
26 Therefore I will laugh during your troubles, I will mock when fear befalls you. 
27 For fear will come on you like a tempest, your calamity will come like a whirlwind. Distress and anguish will come on you. 
28 Then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me. 
29 For they have hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of Yahweh. 
30 For they have not loved my instructions, and they have despised all my reproof. 
31 Therefore they will eat the fruit of their own way, they will suffer the consequences of their own counsel. 
32 For the stubbornness of the foolish persons will kill them. The trust of fools will destroy them. 
33 But he who obey me will not be moved by the fear of evil, and will dwell safely [in his last end].
