1 A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. 
2 The tongue of the wise makes a judicious use of knowledge, but the mouth of fools pours out folly. 
3 The eyes of Yahweh are in every place, observing the evil deeds and the good deeds. 
4 A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but a perverse tongue can break a soul. 
5 A fool despises his father's instruction, but he who heeds reproof acts prudently. [And God is the father of all.]  
6 There is much true treasure in the house of the righteous, but there is trouble in the possessions of the wicked. 
7 The lips of the wise pour out knowledge, but the heart of the foolish does not act thus [because of his hidden motivations]. 
8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, and the prayer of the righteous is his delight. 
9 The way of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, and he loves the one who follows righteousness. 
10 Punishment is grievous for the one who forsakes the right way, and he who hates reproof will die. 
11 Since Hell and destruction are in the sight of Yahweh, how much more the hearts of the children of men. [How can you imagine hiding any intention from him.] 
12 A scoffer does not love reproof, therefore he will not go to the wise. 
13 A joyful heart makes a cheerful countenance, but the sorrow of the heart makes the spirit heavy. 
14 The heart of the one who has understanding seeks knowledge, and the mouth the fool delights in foolishness. 
15 Any person may designate the days of his affliction as evil days, but he who has a good conscience continuously expects a participation in the joy of God. 
16 Better is a little with the fear of Yahweh, than great treasure with trouble. 
17 Better is a dinner of green herbs and with love between the participants, than a meal of fattened oxen with hatred between the participants.
18 He who gets angry quickly stirs up fights, but he who is slow to anger pacifies disputes. 
19 The sluggard considers his way as a hedge of thorns, but the righteous considers his way as a plain. 
20 A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son despises his mother. 
21 Foolishness brings joy to the one who does not have wisdom. And a man of understanding will always walk in the right way. 
22 The objectives will not be achieved if there is no counsellor among those likely to be affected by a project. But in the multitude of counsellors they are established. 
23 There is joy in the heart of him who gives a useful answer with his mouth, and a word spoken at the right time is a delight.
24 The wise man exalts the way of life, for he considers that it allows him to turn away from hell whose ways are lower since they are accessible to everyone. 
25 Yahweh will overthrow the house of the proud, but he will establish the borders of the widow. 
26 Evil plans are an abomination to Yahweh, and the words of the person who is pure are pleasant in the sight of Yahweh [since they are appropriate to the circumstances]. 
27 He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates gifts will live. 
28 The heart of the righteous meditates on an answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. 
29 Yahweh is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. 
30 What pleases the eyes rejoices the heart, and a good news strengthens the bones. 
31 The ear that listens to the relevant reproof that lead to the path of life will rest among the wise. 
32 He who refuses instruction despises his own soul, and he who listens to reproof gets understanding. 
33 The fear of Yahweh is the instruction of wisdom, and true humility precedes true honor.
