1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes his father glad, but a foolish son is a disappointment for his mother.
2 The treasures of wickedness do not bring advantage [in the sight of God], but righteousness save from death. 
3 Yahweh will not let the righteous be very hungry, but he multiplies the desires of the wicked. 
4 He who acts with a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes wealthy. 
5 He who gathers in summer is a son of wisdom, and he who sleeps in harvest is a son of confusion. 
6 Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but iniquity covers the mouth of the wicked. 
7 The memory of the righteous is a blessed, but the name of the wicked will decay. 
8 He who is wise in heart receives commandments, but he who is foolish in lips runs to his destruction. 
9 He who walks in integrity walks boldly, but he who corrupts his ways will be exposed. 
10 He who winks with the eye causes grief, and he who is foolish in lips runs to his destruction. 
11 The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but iniquity covers the mouth of the wicked. 
12 Hatred stirs up hostility, but love covers all transgressions. 
13 Wisdom is found in the lips the one who has understanding, but a rod is for the back of the one who is simple in mind. 
14 The mouth of the wise increases knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish announces his own destruction. 
15 The possessions of a rich man are for him a strong city, and the fear of the poor is his poverty. 
16 The work of the righteous bring life, but the work of the wicked is for sin. 
17 He who keeps instruction is in the way of life, but he who forgets reproof goes astray. 
18 He who conceals hatred has lying lips, and he who conceives slander is a fool. 
19 He who speaks much does not fail to sin, but he who refrains his lips is wise. 
20 The words of the righteous are like pure silver, but the plans of the wicked are worthless. 
21 The lips of the righteous feed many persons [with useful teachings], but fools die for want of wisdom. 
22 The blessing of Yahweh makes a person wealthy, and sorrow is not added to this wealth. 
23 It is a sport for a fool to act wickedly, but a man of understanding has wisdom. 
24 What the wicked fears will come on him, and the desire of the righteous will be granted to him. 
25 Like the whirlwind that comes and then goes away, so the wicked comes and then he is no more. But the righteous is an everlasting foundation. 
26 As vinegar is to the teeth, and as smoke is to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him. 
27 The fear of Yahweh prolongs the days, and the years of the wicked will be shortened. 
28 The hope of the righteous will become his gladness, but the hope of the wicked will perish. 
29 The way of Yahweh is the strength of the upright man, and destruction will come for the workers of iniquity. 
30 The righteous will never be removed, and the wicked will not inhabit the earth. 
31 The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, and the perverse tongue will be cut off. 
32 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked speaks pervertedly.
