1 My son, be attentive to my wisdom. Incline your ear to my knowledge. 
2 So that you may observe the instruction, and so that your lips may keep knowledge. 
3 For the lips of a strange woman drop honey, her mouth is sweeter than oil. 
4 But at the end she is bitter like wormwood, and sharp like a two edged sword. 
5 Her feet descend to death, and her steps reach the hell. 
6 She does not know the path of life. She wanders in her ways, and you cannot understand them. 
7 Now therefore, O my children, listen to me. Do not depart from the words of my mouth. 
8 Keep your way far from her, and do not approach the door of her house. 
9 Lest you give your vigor to others, and your years to the cruel. 
10 Lest your strength be used only to satisfy the elementary needs of strangers, and the fruit of your labor be not in building your own house but in the non-essential parts of a stranger's house. 
11 Lest you mourn at your latter end, when your flesh and your body are consumed. 
12 By saying: Why have I hated instruction. Why has my heart despised reproof. 
13 Why have I not obeyed the voice of my teachers. Why have I not listen to those who instructed me. 
14 And now I have suffered all kinds of misfortunes in the midst of the congregation and assembly. 
15 Drink the waters of your own cistern, the waters that come out of your own well. [Content yourself with the women whose ways you understand and whom you can possess in a honest way]
16 Should your fountains spread out. Should your rivers of waters flow in the streets. 
17 Let them be for you alone, and not for the strangers with you. 
18 Let your fountain be blessed, rejoice with the wife of your youth. 
19 Let her be like a loving hind and a pleasant doe. Let her breasts satisfy you at all times, and delight yourself in her love continually. 
20 For why should you be delighted by a stranger woman, my son. Why should you embrace the breasts of a stranger. 
21 For the ways of man are before the eyes of Yahweh who observes all his paths. 
22 The wicked will be taken in his own iniquities, he will be seized by the cords of his own sin. 
23 He will die for lack of instruction, he will go astray by his great folly.
