1 A wise woman builds her house, but a foolish woman destroys it with her own hands.
2 He who walks with an honest heart fears Yahweh, but he who is perverse in his ways despises Yahweh. 
3 There is pride in the mouth of the foolish, but the lips of the wise preserve them. 
4 The cowshed is clean where there are no cattle, but the abundance of income come from the strength of oxen. 
5 A faithful witness does not seek to lie even though he may be mistaken, but a false witness designs deceits. 
6 A scoffer seeks wisdom and does not find it, but understanding is an easy thing for a man who seeks discernment. 
7 Depart from the foolish man, when you do not perceive knowledge in his lips. 
8 The wisdom of the prudent man is to understand his way. The foolishness of fools is to seek to deceive. 
9 Fools make sport of sin, but among the righteous there is kindness. 
10 The heart alone knows the things that truly grieve it, and a stranger cannot share its joy [because it is also the only one to know what really pleases it]. 
11 The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the righteous will flourish. 
12 There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death [because he who takes this path knows that his actions would not be approved by any assembly of holy men if all the circumstances were explained to them]. 
13 It is possible to laugh with a sad heart, but this false joy will only increase the sorrow. 
14 He whose heart goes astray will be rewarded with his own ways, and a good man is satisfied with what is in him. 
15 He who is simple-minded believes everything that is said, but the prudent considers his steps. 
16 A wise man fears and turns away from evil, but a fool is arrogant and confident. 
17 He who angers hurriedly acts foolishly, but a man with a deceptive behavior will be hated in the end. 
18 The simple-minded will inherit folly, but the prudent crown themselves with knowledge. 
19 The evil will bow down before to the good [in the end], and the wicked will rest at the gates of the righteous. 
20 The poor man is unpleasant even to his neighbor, but the rich have many friends. 
21 He who despises his neighbor commits a sin, and he who has pity on the poor is blessed. 
22 Do not those who plan evil err. For mercy and faithfulness are for those who plan what is good [that is to say, what is publicly justifiable]. 
23 Any labor brings abundance of its product, and idle talk leads only to want. 
24 Wealth will be the crown of the wise, and foolishness will be the reward of fools. 
25 A faithful witness saves souls, but a deceitful witness speaks lies. 
26 He who fears Yahweh has a firm foundation, and his children will have hope.
27 The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life, it allows to avoid the snares of death. 
28 When the people are many, it is and honor for the king. But when the people are few, it is the ruin of the prince [because there is little chance that the people will continue to want to keep their organization in the form of a kingdom]. 
29 He who is slow to anger has a great understanding, and he who has a hasty spirit proclaims his folly. 
30 A calm heart is the life of the body, but envy is the deterioration of the bones. 
31 He who oppresses the poor reproaches his maker [namely the one who causes all things to happen]. But he who has pity on the needy honors the creator. 
32 The wicked will be overthrown by his wickedness, but the righteous has a refuge even in his death. 
33 Wisdom rests in the heart of him who has understanding, and what is in the heart of the fool will be exposed. 
34 Righteousness exalts a nation, and sin is the shame of any people.
35 A wise servant is a delight for his king, and the wrath of the king will be against the servants who cause shame.
