1 My son, keep my words. Hide my commandments within you. 
2 Perform my commandments, and you will live. Keep my instruction as the apple of your eye. 
3 Bind them on your fingers, and write them on the tablet of your heart. 
4 Say to wisdom, You are my sister. And call understanding your kinswoman. 
5 And thus you will be preserved from the strange woman, from the stranger who flatters with her words. 
6 I was at the window of my house, and I looked through my window. 
7 And I saw one of those who are simple-minded. I noticed a young man among the youths, and I saw that he did not have understanding. 
8 He was going through the street, near a corner where was  a certain woman. And he was going on the path of her house. 
9 It was in the twilight in the evening, when the night began to be dark and black. 
10 And behold, he encountered a woman. She had the behavior of a prostitute, and she was cunning in her heart. 
11 She was indecent and restless. Her feet could not stay in her house. 
12 She was standing here and there in the street, looking for a prey at every corner. 
13 So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face she spoke to him.
14 And she said: I had made a vow, and it has been fulfilled today. Therefore I will offer thanks to my God. 
15 For I have come out to meet you. I have diligently sought your face, and I have found you. 
16 I have adorned my bedroom with tapestry, and with carved works, and with fine linen of Egypt. 
17 I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, and aloes, and cinnamon. 
18 Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us comfort ourselves with love. 
19 For my husband is not at home, he has gone for a long journey. 
20 He has taken a bag of money with him, therefore he will not return home before a certain time. 
21 Thus she seduced him with her crafty speech, she enticed him with her flattering lips. 
22 And he followed her immediately like an ox who is led to the slaughter, like a fool bonded for punishment. 
23 Until an arrow pierces his liver, like the bird that rushes into the net without knowing that it is at the cost of its life. 
24 Now therefore my sons, listen to me. Pay attention to the words of my mouth. 
25 Let not your heart turn aside toward the ways of such a woman, nor wander in her paths. 
26 For she has caused many to fall. All those whom the women like her have killed are numerous. 
27 Her house is a way to the grave, it goes down to the chambers of death.
