1 The poor man who walks in his integrity is better than the man who has perverse lips and is a fool.
2 It is not good for a man to lack understanding. And he who acts in haste commits sin. 
3 The foolishness of a man perverts his way, and it is against Yahweh that his heart is irritated. 
4 Whoever has riches has a large number of friends even among those unknown to him, but a poor man is even separated from his neighbor. 
5 A false witness will not remain unpunished. Yes, he who says lies [without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart] will not escape. 
6 Many people flatter the generous man. Yes, every man is a friend to him who gives gifts. 
7 The one who is poor is hated by all his brothers, and his friends are the first to move away from him.
8 Whoever seeks understanding loves his own soul. The one who keeps wisdom will find happiness.
9 A false witness will not remain unpunished. Yes, he who says lies [without having publicly acceptable justifications in his heart] will perish. 
10 . 
11 The man who has wisdom is slow to anger, and it is a glory for him not to declare his response to an offense [for he is not God]. 
12 The king's anger is like the roar of an adult young lion, and his favor is like dew on the grass. 
13 A foolish son is the calamity of his father, and a quarrel with a wife is like the noise of a water that drops continually. 
14 One can inherit houses and riches from his ancestors, but a wife who has wisdom is a gift of Yahweh. 
15 The laziness causes to fall asleep, and the indolent soul will suffer from hunger. 
16 Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his own soul, and whoever does not watch over his ways will die. 
17 Whoever has mercy on the poor is lending to Yahweh, and Yahweh will reward him according to his work. 
18 Discipline your son while there is hope, but do not do more than what seems necessary. 
19 The one who gets easily angry will suffer the consequences. And do not seek to advise him directly on this aspect of his personality, because he will start again. 
20 Listen to my counsel and receive the instruction, in order to be wise for the rest of your life. 
21 There may be many plans in the heart of a man, but it is the objective of Yahweh that will be accomplished. 
22 The true beauty of a man is his kindness, and a poor is much better than a liar. 
23 The fear of Yahweh leads to life. He who is filled with that fear will not be destroyed by evil but will triumph.
24 . 
25 If you smite a scoffer, then the one who is simple-minded will learn prudence. And if you reprove an intelligent man, then he will understand knowledge. 
26 The one who mistreats his father, or who chases away his mother, is a son who causes shame and brings reproach. 
27 My son, if you cease to listen to the instruction then you will err from the words of knowledge. 
28 A wicked witness laughs at justice, for the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity. 
29 There are punishments prepared for scoffers, and the backs of fools will be whipped.
