1 He who separates himself from all others seeks his own desire, and he is irritated against all that is wise. 
2 A fool has no delight in understanding, but only in the manifestation of his thoughts. 
3 Whoever associates himself with a wicked attracts reproach from God, and contempt, and shame. 
4 The words of a man's mouth are like deep waters, while the source of wisdom is like a flowing brook. 
5 It is not good to do favors to the wicked by altering the rights of the righteous in the judgment. 
6 A fool's lips enter into the quarrels that do not concern him, and his mouth asks that blows be given. 
7 A fool's mouth is his own destruction, for his lips are a snare for his soul. 
8 The words of a slanderer are like tasty morsels, they descend into the innermost parts of the belly. 
9 Whoever is slothful in his work is a brother of the destroyer. 
10 The name of Yahweh is a strong tower, and the righteous runs into it for safety. 
11 The riches of a rich man are his strong city. They are like a high wall in his imagination. 
12 The heart of a man is haughty before his destruction, while true humility precedes true glory. 
13 If someone answers a matter before he has listened to it, then he is committing an act of foolishness and he is attracting shame on himself. 
14 The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity. And who can lift up a broken spirit [if not the word of Yahweh]. 
15 A wise heart will obtain knowledge, for the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. 
16 The gifts given by a man widen his way, and bring him before great men. 
17 When there is a contention, the party who comes first to argue his case seems to be right. But it is only after the other parties have also come to argue that it is then possible to examine the case fairly. 
18 . 
19 It is easier to conquer a strong city than to restore a true peace with a brother who has been offended. Their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
20 A man's belly will be filled with the fruit of his mouth. Each person will be satisfied by the product of his lips. 
21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Anyone who loves to talk will eat the fruits of his tongue. 
22 Whoever finds a good wife has obtained a favor from Yahweh. 
23 The poor man speaks by supplicating, and the rich responds harshly. 
24 A man can have many relationships but very few are true friends [who can really feel directly concerned by a misfortune]. But there is such a friend who is more supportive than a brother.
