1 As snow in summer, and rain in harvest, thus glory is not fitting for a fool. 
2 Like the trail of the sparrow in the sky, or like the trail of the swallow in the sky, so a curse that is not the result of a completely diabolical cause will have no effect. 
3 A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools. 
4 Do not respond to a fool by adopting a behavior that is similar to that of his folly, lest you become like him.
5 Respond to a fool only after you have understood the quality of his foolishness and do it only to publicly expose unacceptable behavior, lest he consider himself wise in his own eyes and repeat the same behavior later. 
6 He who sends a message by the hand of a fool is like one who cuts off his own feet and drinks violence. 
7 A proverb that is invented by a fool is as unsuitable as the feet of a lame. 
8 He who honors a fool is like one who hides a precious stone in a great heap of stones. 
9 A proverb that is invented by a fool is like a thorn branch in the hand of a drunk man.
10 The great God who formed all things will reward the fool in an appropriate way and will reward transgressors in an appropriate way. 
11 As a dog that returns to its own vomit, so is a fool who repeats his folly. 
12 Have you seen a man who thinks himself very wise. There is more to be hoped for from a fool than from him. 
13 The sluggard says: There is a lion in the way, there is a lion in the streets. 
14 As the door turns on its hinges, so does the sluggard on his bed. 
15 . 
16 The sluggard thinks himself wiser than seven men who answer with good sense. 
17 As one who seizes a dog by the ears, so is a passerby who intervenes in a quarrel that does not concern him. [A passerby who is not one of those whom the organization of society has established to maintain public order.] 
18 Like a madman who throws firebrands, and arrows and death [that is to say other deadly things]. 
19 So is a man who deceives his neighbor and who says: Was it not a jest. 
20 A fire goes out due to lack of wood. And where there is no whisperer, contention ceases. 
21 As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, thus can a contentious man inflame a strife. 
22 As coals can do to hot embers, and as wood can do to fire, thus can a contentious man inflame a strife. 
23 The one who has burning lips and an evil heart is like an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross. 
24 He who hates will be known by his lips, for he will plan snares in his heart. 
25 Such a person may speak kindly, but do not believe him. For there are seven abominations in his heart. 
26 He can hide his hatred by deceptive behaviors, but his malice will be understood by the multitude.
27 He who digs a pit to trap someone else will fall into it himself. And a stone will return on him who rolls it. 
28 A lying tongue hates those whom it crushes, and a flattering mouth causes ruin.
