1 A man who is rebuked and who stiffens his neck will ultimately be broken suddenly and without remedy. 
2 When the righteous have authority, the people rejoice. But when the wicked rule, the people sigh.
3 A man who loves wisdom makes his father glad, but he who keeps company with prostitutes squanders his wealth. 
4 It is by establishing righteousness and fairness that a king brings prosperity to his land. But the king who desires gifts brings ruin to his land. 
5 A man who flatters his neighbor is spreading a net for his steps. 
6 There is a snare for his own soul in the transgressions of an evil man, but the righteous will triumph and will rejoice. 
7 The righteous care about the cause of the poor, but the wicked do not understand the wisdom of Yahweh. 
8 Scoffers sow discord in a city, but wise men turn away wrath. 
9 If a wise man contends with a foolish man, then the fool may be angry or laugh, but there will be no peace. 
10 Bloodthirsty men hate the one who is blameless. But the upright protect his own soul.
11 The fool expresses all that he thinks, but the wise man keeps it to himself until later. 
12 When the behavior of a leader shows that he is not concerned by the discernment between good and evil, all his servants are wicked. 
13 The powerless and the oppressor meet together, and Yahweh enlightens the eyes of each one according to his good pleasure. 
14 A king who judges the poor with justice will have the legacy of his kingship established forever. 
15 The rod and reproof give wisdom. But a child left to himself will cause shame to his mother. 
16 When the wicked increase, transgression increases. But the righteous will see their fall. 
17 Discipline your son, and he will give you rest. Yes, he will give pleasure to your soul. 
18 A people who keeps the commandment is blessed. But where justice is not established to be the true God, the social organization leads to ruin. 
19 A servant is not disciplined only with words. For listening to words will not stop him from repeating the bad behaviors. [A proportional response must be given to each transgression, like God does with each of his servants.] 
20 If you see a man who is rash in his speech, then there is more to be hoped for from a fool than from him. 
21 A servant who is treated delicately from his childhood by his master will become like a son in the end. 
22 An angry man stirs up strife, and a furious man abounds with transgressions. 
23 A man's pride will bring him low, but he who is humble in spirit will be honored. 
24 He who is a partner of a thief hates his own soul. For he will not be willing to remove deceit from his lips when they have committed a crime together. 
25 It is a snare to have the fear of a person, for it is he who has the fear of Yahweh who will be exalted. 
26 Many people seek the favor of the ruler, but it is Yahweh who will judge each person. 
27 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, and he who is upright in his ways is an abomination to the wicked.
