1 My son, if you have made yourself an unrestricted surety for your neighbor, if you have pledged yourself for another. 
2 If you are snared by the words of your mouth, if you are taken by the words of your own mouth. 
3 Then you must do the following thing now, my son. Free yourself, because you have fallen into the power of your neighbor. Go and humble yourself, make entreaties to your neighbor. 
4 Give no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids. 
5 Free yourself like a roe deer from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler. 
6 Look at the ant, you sluggard. Consider her ways, and be wise. 
7 For she has no leader, and no overseer, and no ruler. 
8 She prepares her food in the summer, she gathers her food in the harvest. 
9 How long will you sleep, O sluggard. When will you arise from your sleep. 
10 A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of your hands to sleep. 
11 And poverty will come on you like a prowler. You will be overcome by need as by an armed man. 
12 The one who walks with deceit in the mouth is either a perverse person or an unjust person, when there is no publicly acceptable justifications in the bottom of the heart. 
13 Such a person winks with his eyes, or talks with his feet, or makes signs with his fingers. 
14 Perversity is in his heart. He plots evil at all times, and sows discord. 
15 Therefore his destruction will come suddenly. He will be broken suddenly, and without remedy. 
16 There are six things that Yahweh hates. Yes, there are seven things that are an abomination to him. 
17 The haughty eyes, and a lying tongue [who does not have a publicly acceptable justification in the heart], and hands that shed innocent blood. 
18 And a heart that plans wicked purposes, and feet that are quick in running to evil. 
19 And a false witness who speaks lies, and he who sows discord among brothers. 
20 My son, keep your father's commandments and do not forsake the instruction of your mother. 
21 Bind them always on your heart, and tie them around your neck. 
22 They will guide you in your walk. They will guard you when you are asleep, and they will speak to you when you are awake. 
23 For the commandment is a lamp, and the instruction is a light. And reproofs of instruction are the way of life. 
24 In order to keep you from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. 
25 Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, do not be seduced by her eyelids. [Recognize the nature of her heart.] 
26 For a whore is only looking for bread, but an evil woman will hunt for a precious life. 
27 Can a man put fire in his chest without burning his clothes. 
28 Can a man walk on hot coals without burning his feet. [How can this happen without a special intervention from the one for whom nothing is impossible] 
29 It is thus for him who goes to the wife of his neighbor. Whoever touches her will not be innocent. 
30 A thief will not be declared innocent when he steals to satisfy his appetite, when he is hungry. 
31 For if he is found then he will restore sevenfold, or he will give all that he has in his house. 
32 But he who commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding. He who does this thing is destroying his own soul. 
33 He will find wounds [in his heart] and dishonor, and the reproach of his deed will never be erased. 
34 For jealousy is the rage of a man, and he will not refrain in the day of vengeance. 
35 He will not be interested in any ransom, and he will not consent, although you may give many gifts.
