1 My children, listen to the instruction of a father. Be attentive in order to know wisdom. 
2 For I give you the good doctrine. Do not forsake my teaching. 
3 I was a son for my father, and I was a tender and beloved child for my mother. 
4 And my father taught me and said to me: Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commandments and you will live. 
5 Acquire wisdom and understanding. Do not forget the words of my mouth, and do not turn away from them. 
6 Do not forsake wisdom, and she will keep you. Love her, and she will preserve you. 
7 And the following thing is the beginning of wisdom: Search wisdom, give her more value than all that you can possess. 
8 Exalt her, and she will exalt you. If you embrace her then she will bring you honor. 
9 She will put on your head a crown of grace, she will adorn you with a magnificent tiara. 
10 Listen, my son, and receive my words in order to multiply the years of your life. 
11 I show you the way of wisdom, I lead you to the paths of righteousness. 
12 Your steps will be strengthened when you walk, and you will not fall when you run. 
13 Retain the instruction, and do not let her go. Keep her, for she is your life giver. 
14 Do not enter into the path of the wicked. Do not walk in the way of evil men. 
15 Avoid it, do not go near it. Turn away from it, and continue on your way. 
16 For they cannot sleep if they have not done evil. Their sleep departs when they do not cause someone to fall. 
17 For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. 
18 But the way of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, for its brightness increases until the middle of the day. 
19 The way of the wicked is like darkness. They do not know how they will fall [while the righteous man knows that he will be preserved by his justice]. 
20 My son, be attentive to my words. Incline your ear to my speeches. 
21 Do not let them depart from your eyes, keep them in the bottom of your heart [in order to think about it continuously]. 
22 For they are life for those who find them, and health for their flesh. 
23 Keep your heart more than anything else, for it is the source of your life. 
24 Remove falsehood from your mouth, banish deceit from your lips. [You must not do anything without having publicly acceptable justifications in your heart] 
25 Let your eyes look straight before you, and let your eyelids look straight before you. 
26 Consider the path on which you are walking, and let all your ways be well organized. 
27 Do not turn to the right hand nor to the left, remove your foot from evil.
