1 My son, do not forget my law. Let your heart keep my commandments. 
2 For they will prolong the length of your days and the years of your life. They will give you peace. 
3 Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, and write them on the tablet of your heart. 
4 In order to find good understanding and favor in the sight of God and man. 
5 Trust in Yahweh with all your heart, and do not rely on your own wisdom. 
6 Acknowledge him in all your ways, and he will direct your paths. 
7 Do not be wise in your own eyes, but fear Yahweh and depart from evil. 
8 It will be health to your muscles, and a refreshment for your bones. 
9 Honor Yahweh with your wealth, and with the firstfruits of all your income. 
10 And thus your barns will be filled with abundance, and your vats will overflow with new wine. 
11 My son, do not despise the chastening discipline of Yahweh. Do not be weary of his reproof. 
12 For Yahweh disciplines the one whom he loves, as a father disciplines his beloved child. 
13 Blessed is the person who finds wisdom, namely the person who gets understanding. 
14 For the benefit that she gives is better than silver, the reward that she gives is better than gold. 
15 She is more precious than rubies, and more to be desired than all other things. 
16 In her right hand is long life, and in her left hand are wealth and honor. 
17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. 
18 She is a tree of life for those who take hold of her, for the one who retains her is blessed. 
19 Yahweh has established the heavens by wisdom, and he has founded the earth by understanding. 
20 It is by his knowledge that the depths were opened, and that the clouds drop down the dew. 
21 My son, let not these teachings depart from your eyes. Keep wisdom and instructions. 
22 For they will be life to your soul, and grace to your neck. 
23 Then you will walk in your way with confidence, and your foot will not stumble. 
24 You will not be without hope when you lie down, and your sleep will be peaceful when you sleep. 
25 Do not be afraid of sudden terror, or of the destruction that comes from the wicked. 
26 For Yahweh will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being caught. 
27 Do not withhold a reward from him who deserves it, when you have the power to grant it. 
28 If you can give it now, then do not say to your neighbor: Go and come again, and tomorrow I will give it to you. 
29 Do not plot evil against your neighbor, when he lives peacefully near you. [A deed is evil towards a person when an assembly of honest people cannot declare that his known behavior justifies the fact of imposing on him to suffer the consequences of that deed.] 
30 Do not quarrel with a person only because you have the power to do it, when that person has done no harm to you or to someone else who is powerless. 
31 Do not envy a wicked man [or a wicked person], and do not choose any of his ways. 
32 For Yahweh abhors the perverse, but he is a friend to the upright. 
33 The curse of Yahweh is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. 
34 He scoffs the scoffers, but he gives grace to the humble. 
35 The wise will inherit glory, but fools will inherit shame.
