1 These also are proverbs of Solomon, which was collected by the men of Hezekiah king of Judah. 
2 It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the honor of kings is to search out a matter. 
3 Like the sky in its height and the earth in its depth, thus the hearts of kings are unsearchable. 
4 Take away the dross from the silver, and the smith will have a good material to do a task. 
5 Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne will be established by righteousness. 
6 Do not exalt yourself in the presence of the king, and do not take the initiative to place yourself among great men. 
7 For it is preferable for you that someone tell you 'Come up here' rather than to be humiliated before the great men whom your eyes have seen. 
8 Do not hasten to enter into a dispute, lest you know not what to do in the end when your neighbor has shamed you. 
9 Speak about your cause with your neighbor without revealing the secret of another. 
10 Lest the one who hears it puts you to shame, and your infamy clings to you. 
11 A word that is spoken fitly is like apples of gold in settings of silver. 
12 When a wise rebukes an intelligent ear, it is like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold. 
13 As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him. For he refreshes the soul of his masters. 
14 A man who makes false promises is like clouds and wind without rain. 
15 . 
16 If you find honey then eat only what is enough for yourself, lest you be overfull and vomit it. 
17 Let your foot be infrequent in your neighbor's house, lest he become weary of your presence and hates you. 
18 A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a hammer, and a sword, and a sharp arrow. 
19 Trust in an unfaithful man in the day of trouble is like a broken tooth and a foot out of joint. 
20 The one who sings songs to a sad heart is like the one who takes away his garment in cold weather, or who mixes vinegar and nitre. 
21 If your enemy is hungry then give him bread to eat. If he is thirsty then give him water to drink. 
22 For thus you will heap coals of fire on his head, and Yahweh will reward you. 
23 A backbiting tongue will cause the righteous to anger [even if he does not show it], like the north wind brings forth rain. 
24 It is better to dwell alone in a corner of the roof than to dwell with a contentious woman in a wide house. 
25 .
26 .
27 .
28 .
