1 The king's heart is in the hand of Yahweh like the brooks of waters. He turns it wherever he pleases. 
2 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes [despite the fact that he may know that they are not publicly justifiable], but Yahweh weighs the hearts. 
3 To act sincerely and fairly [by not seeking to deceive anyone without having in one's heart a publicly acceptable justification] is more acceptable to Yahweh than to offer sacrifice.
4 A haughty look and a proud heart are the lamp of the wicked, and it is a sin. 
5 The thoughts of the diligent lead to abundance, while he who acts with carelessness will become poor. 
6 Treasures obtained by the use of a deceitful tongue are vanity and a harbinger of death.
7 The violence of the effects of the actions of wicked persons will be the cause of their destruction, because they refuse to act justly. 
8 The way of man is crooked and strange, but the one who is pure is behaving rightly in his particular context. 
9 It is better to dwell alone in a corner of the roof than to dwell with a contentious woman in a wide house. 
10 The soul of the wicked desires evil, and his friend finds no favour in his sight. 
11 When a scoffer is punished, he who is simple-minded becomes prudent. And when a wise man is instructed, he receives knowledge. 
12 The righteous man considers the house [legacy] of the wicked. But God will overthrow the wicked for their wickedness. 
13 He who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will also cry and will not be heard. 
14 A gift given in secret pacifies anger. Yes, a gift given in secret pacifies even a fierce fury. 
15 It is a joy for the righteous to do justice, and destruction will be for the workers of iniquity. 
16 The man who strays from the path of wisdom will rest in the assembly of the dead. 
17 He who loves delights will be a poor man. He who loves wine and oil will not be rich. 
18 The wicked will be a ransom for the righteous. Yes, the transgressor will be a ransom for the upright. 
19 It is better to dwell alone in a wilderness than to dwell with a contentious and irritable woman. 
20 . 
21 He who follows righteousness and mercy will find life, justice and honor. 
22 A wise man can go to a city of mighty men and cast down the strength of their confidence. 
23 He who guards his tongue and his mouth keeps his soul from troubles. 
24 A proud and haughty man is called a scoffer. He dwells in the fury of arrogance. 
25 The desires of the sluggard will kill him, because his hands refuse to work. 
26 The sluggard covets all day long, while the righteous gives and withholds not [when the request is serious]. 
27 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination. How much more when they bring it with wicked thoughts. 
28 A false witness will perish, but the man who hears will speak whenever there is the need. 
29 The wicked man hardens his face, but the upright establishes his own way. 
30 There is no wisdom against [the instruction of] Yahweh, nor understanding, nor counsel. 
31 The horse is prepared for the day of battle, but victory belongs to Yahweh.
