1 The words of Agur the son of Jakeh. The words that he spoke to Ithiel, even to Ithiel and to Ucal. 
2 Surely I am more stupid than any man, for I have not the understanding of a man in me. 
3 But I have learned wisdom, and I have the knowledge of the holy men. 
4 Who has ascended into heaven, and has descended. Who has gathered the wind in his fists. Who has bound the waters in his garment. Who has established all the ends of the world. What is his name and what is the name of his son. Do you have an answer. 
5 Every word of God is pure. He is a shield to each of those who put their trust in him. 
6 Do not add anything to his words [apart from the unique interpretations that establish the non-contradictory nature of his statements which sometimes say a same thing in several ways in a same book in order to clarify the meaning of the words used], lest he reprimand you and you be found a liar. 
7 I ask two things of you. Do not deny them to me before I die. 
8 Take away from me falseness and futilities. And give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with the food that is necessary for me. 
9 Lest I deny you while being in abundance and say, 'Who is Yahweh'. And lest I steal while being in poverty and thus profane the name of my God. 
10 Do not disparage a servant to his master, lest he curse you and you be found guilty. 
11 There is a kind of persons who curse each one his father and do not bless each one his mother. 
12 There is a kind of persons who are pure each one in his own eyes, and yet none of them is washed from his filthiness. 
13 There is kind of persons whose eyes are haughty and whose eyelids are lifted up. 
14 There is a kind of persons whose teeth are like swords. Their jaws are like knives to devour the powerless of the earth, especially the needy from among men. 
15 The leech has two daughters whose names are give and give. There are three things that are insatiable. Yes, there are four things that never say: It is enough. 
16 The place of the dead, and the barren woman, and the earth which is not satisfied with water, and the fire which will stop by itself only if there is no more fuel. 
17 The eye that mocks his father and disdains obedience to his mother, the ravens of the valley will pick it and the young eagles will eat it. 
18 There are three things that are too great for me to understand. Yes, four that I cannot comprehend. 
19 The way of an eagle in the sky, and the way of a serpent on a rock, and the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, and the way of a man with a young woman. 
20 Such is the way of an adulterous woman. She eats and wipes her mouth, and says: I have done no wickedness. 
21 There are three things that cause the earth to tremble. Yes, there are four things the it cannot endure. 
22 A servant who becomes king, and a fool who is satisfied with food. 
23 A woman of bad reputation who marries, and a handmaid who becomes a heir of her mistress. 
24 There are four creatures on earth that are small, and yet they are full of wisdom. 
25 The ants are not a strong people, and yet they prepare their food in summer. 
26 The conies are but a feeble folk, and yet they make their houses in the rocks. 
27 The locusts have no king, and yet they move by groups. 
28 The spider seizes with its hands, and is found in the palaces of kings. 
29 There are three that have a beautiful look. Yes, there are four that have a beautiful gait. 
30 The lion, which is strong among many beasts that are its prey and which almost never runs away. 
31 And a fully equipped horse, and a goat, and a king against whom there is no rising up.
32 If you have been foolish enough to become proud, if you have planned evil in your thoughts, then put your hand on your mouth. 
33 For the pressure of milk produces cheese, and the pressure of the nose produces blood, and the pressure of anger produces strife.
