1 Do not envy evil men, and do not desire to be with them. 
2 For their hearts plans destruction, and the words of their lips are iniquity. 
3 A house that is built by wisdom will be established by understanding. 
4 It is by knowledge that are its rooms filled with all precious and pleasant things which are useful to its owner. 
5 A wise man is strong. For a man of understanding increases his strength [moral strength]. 
6 For you will make your wars by wise counsel, and there is safety in the multitude of wise counselors. 
7 Wisdom is too high for a fool. He will never have something useful to say in the gate. 
8 He who plans to do evil is called a man full of wickedness. 
9 The thoughts of foolishness are sins, and a scoffer is an abomination to men. 
10 If you faint in the day of adversity, then your strength is small. 
11 If you have the opportunity to defend them, then save those who are unjustly carried to death and those who are about to be killed. 
12 You may wait in order to say afterward, 'I withheld some information because I did not know that those persons would be put to death'. But will not he who weighs the hearts understand it. Does not he who watches over your soul know it. Will he not reward each person according to his works.
13 Eat honey, my son, for it is good. Honey that is eaten in the honeycomb is sweet to your mouth. 
14 Thus will the knowledge of wisdom be to your soul. If you find it then there is a future for you, for your hope will not be cut off. 
15 Do not lie in wait against the dwelling of the righteous, O wicked man. Do not spoil his resting place. 
16 For the righteous man falls seven times and continues to get up, while the wicked are cast down into destruction. 
17 Do not become glad when your enemy falls, do not let your heart rejoice when he stumbles. 
18 Lest Yahweh see it, and be displeased with it, and turn his anger away from that wicked person.
19 Do not be afraid of the success of those who do evil, and do not envy the wicked. 
20 For there is no future for the one who do evil. The lamp of the wicked will be extinguished. 
21 My son, fear Yahweh and the king. Do not walk with the seditious. 
22 For their destruction will arise suddenly. And who knows the punishments of the ones and of the others. 
23 There is also the following principle that belongs to the wise: It is not good to have partiality in judgment. 
24 He who says to the wicked, 'You are righteous'. The people will curse him, and nations will abhor him. 
25 But the judge who condemns the wicked will be loved by the people, and will be blessed by the people. 
26 He who answers with righteous words is a delight, like a bridegroom is delighted by a kiss of his bride. 
27 Put order in all your interactions by establishing peace, and then you can start to build your house [with the confidence that it will have been useful in the end]. 
28 Do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause [that is to say without having a publicly acceptable justification in your heart]. Why would you deceive with your lips. 
29 Do not say: I will do to him what he did to me, I will repay each man according to his works. 
30 I went near the field of a sluggard, the vineyard of a man who has no understanding. 
31 And behold, thorns were growing in it, and nettles covered its face, and the stone wall was broken down. 
32 And I looked carefully, and I considered this thing deeply. And then I was instructed by what I saw. 
33 A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of your hands to sleep. 
34 And poverty will come on you like a prowler. You will be overcome by need as by an armed man.
