1 He who loves instruction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is a fool. 
2 A good man obtains favor from Yahweh, and Yahweh will rebuke the man who conceives wicked plans. 
3 A man cannot be established by wickedness, and the root of the righteous will not be moved.
4 A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband, but she who causes shame is like deterioration in his bones. 
5 The thoughts of the righteous are only justice, and the plans of the wicked are deceits. 
6 The words of the wicked are a snare to shed blood, and the mouth of the righteous is like a deliverance. 
7 The wicked will be overthrown and will be no more, but the house of the righteous will endure. 
8 A man will be esteemed according to his wisdom, but he who is perverse in heart will be despised. 
9 He who is despised and has a servant is better than he who honors himself and lacks bread. 
10 A righteous man really cares for his livestock, but the tender mercies given by the wicked are cruel. 
11 He who tills his land will be satisfied with food, but he who follows worthless things lacks understanding. 
12 The wicked covets the possessions of wicked men, but the root of the righteous yields fruits of real value. 
13 The wicked is snared by the wickedness of his lips, but the righteous will come out of trouble. 
14 A man will be satisfied with good things by the fruit of his mouth, for God will reward each person according to the work of his own hands. 
15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes [although he knows that it is not publicly justifiable], but he who listens to advice is wise. 
16 A fool reveals his anger without delay, but he who hides an insult is prudent [because he takes the time to choose a response that is truly appropriate and which may simply consist of distancing himself in a certain way]. 
17 A truthful man always proclaims justice, but a false witness seek to deceive. 
18 The words of the one who speaks rashly can cut like a sword, but the tongue of the wise causes a feeling of well being in everyone who listens. 
19 A truthful lip will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only for a moment [in comparison with the duration of eternity]. 
20 Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but true joy is with those who counsel peace. 
21 No true misfortune befalls the righteous [since his troubles are part of God's plan to build him a legacy of his own], but the wicked are overwhelmed with evil thoughts. 
22 Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh, but those who act truthfully are his delight. 
23 A prudent man conceals his knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims foolishness. 
24 The hand of the diligent will rule in the end, and the lazy hand will be under tribute. 
25 Anxiety in the heart of a righteous man can make him lose courage, but a good word will make him glad. 
26 The righteous show his friend the right way, but a wicked is deceived by the way of evil. 
27 The slothful does not roast what he has hunted, but the possessions of the diligent are precious in his own sight. 
28 There is life in the way of righteousness, and there is no death in that path.
