1 A dry morsel obtained in peaceful circumstances is better than a house that is full of meat and in which there is a quarrel. 
2 A wise servant will have rule over a son who causes shame, and he will also have a part of the inheritance among the brothers. 
3 As the refining pot is used to purify silver, and as the furnace is used to purify gold, so Yahweh is the one who probes the hearts.
4 A wicked man desires to imitate evil teachings. A liar delights in imitating the strategies of liars. 
5 He who oppresses the poor reproaches his maker [namely the one who causes all things to happen]. And he who rejoices in calamity will not be unpunished. 
6 Children's children are the crown of old men, and the glory of children is their ancestors. 
7 He who has found the skill of having appropriate words does not become a true fool. And also he who is in the habit of deceiving others without having in his heart justifications that he imagines to be understandable at least by some people cannot become a noble man. [A noble man is one who does not deceive anyone without having in his heart justifications that he knows to be publicly acceptable by any assembly of honest people.]
8 . 
9 He who forgives a transgression seeks love, but he who speaks continually about it can separate even close friends. [But to forgive does not mean to forget but simply to take appropriate precautions, and it is not necessary to talk about it continually.] 
10 A proper rebuke penetrates more deeper into the heart of a wise man than the penetration into the heart of a fool of the effects of a hundred lashes. 
11 A wicked man only wants to trouble some people, and a cruel messenger will be sent against him. 
12 It is better to meet a bear whose cubs have just been taken away than to meet a fool who is performing his folly.
13 Evil will not depart from the house of the one who has repaid evil for good. 
14 The start of a quarrel is like the fact of opening a hole in a dam. Withdraw yourself before the argument escalates. 
15 He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, they are both an abomination to Yahweh. 
16 .
17 A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity [either to create adversity or to support during adversity or both]. 
18 A man who has no understanding extends his hand to become an unrestricted surety for his neighbor. 
19 He who loves strife loves sin. He who raises high his gate seeks destruction. 
20 He whose heart is not sincere will not find good, and he whose tongue is perverse will fall into adversity. 
21 He who begets a fool will have sorrow. The father of a fool cannot have joy. 
22 A joyful heart is a good medicine, but a broken spirit dries up the bones. 
23 The wicked man accepts in secret the bribes given to him to pervert the ways of justice. 
24 Wisdom is before the face of him who has understanding, but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth. 
25 A foolish son is a grief to his father, and a bitterness to her who bore him. 
26 It is not good to punish the innocent, nor to smite noble persons for their honesty. 
27 He who chooses his words carefully has knowledge. And a man of understanding has an excellent spirit. 
28 Even a fool can pretend to be wise by keeping his peace. For he who shuts his lips is supposed to be prudent.
