1 False scales are an abomination to Yahweh, and he is delighted by accurate weights. 
2 When pride comes, then comes shame. But wisdom is with the humble. 
3 The integrity of the righteous guides him, but the perverse ways of the deceiver will destroy him. 
4 Riches is of no avail in the day of the wrath of Yahweh, but righteousness save from death. 
5 The righteousness of the upright directs his way, but the wicked will fall in his own wickedness. 
6 The righteousness of the honest will save him, but the transgressor will be taken by his own wickedness. 
7 After a wicked man has died, his hope will perish. The wicked hope will perish. 
8 The righteous is save from trouble, and the wicked comes to take a place there. 
9 An hypocrite uses his words to destroy his neighbor, but the righteous will be freed by his knowledge. 
10 The people of city rejoices when the righteous prospers, and they shout for joy when the wicked perishes. 
11 A city is exalted by the blessing of the righteous, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. 
12 He who despises his neighbor lacks wisdom, for a man of understanding keeps silence. 
13 He who reveals the secrets of others without any necessity that may publicly justify this action is a slander, for he who is of a faithful spirit conceals a matter. 
14 Where there is no wise counselor, the people fall. But where there are many wise counselors, there is safety. 
15 He who is an unrestricted surety for another is in trouble, but he who hates suretyship is safe. 
16 A gracious woman will obtain honor, and the powerful men will obtain riches. 
17 A merciful man does good to his own soul, and a cruel man troubles his own flesh. 
18 The work of the wicked is deceitful, for it is those who sow righteousness who will receive a true reward. 
19 So righteousness leads to life, but he who follows evil will find his own death. 
20 Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Yahweh, but those who are upright in their ways are his delight. 
21 Surely the wicked will not be unpunished, but the spiritual children of the righteous will be save. 
22 A beautiful woman who lacks understanding is as a gold ring placed in the nose of a pig. 
23 The desires of the righteous are intended to create peace, but the secret hope of the wicked cannot fail to create a trouble. 
24 The one who gives freely becomes wealthier, but he who saves too much attracts another kind of poverty. 
25 The generous soul will be satisfied. He who waters will also receive rain. 
26 He who withholds grain is cursed by the people, and the blessing will be on the head of him who sells it. 
27 He who seeks peace will obtain favor, but he who follows evil will be harmed by it. 
28 He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a young leaf. 
29 He who troubles his own house will inherit the wind, and [in their final ends] the fool will be servant to the one whose heart is wise. 
30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, for the person who is wise gains souls honestly. 
31 And behold, each righteous person will receive a reward on the earth. And it will certainly also be the case for the wicked and the sinners.
