1 Wine is a mocker, a strong drink is a brawler. Whoever drinks too much of it is not wise. 
2 The fear caused by a king is like the roar of a young adult lion. The servant who provokes a king to anger sins against his own soul. 
3 Refraining from all forms of physical violence in any discussions is a behavior that honors a man. For the fool does not argue only with the content of his written or spoken message, but he also argues with the threats of the movements of his body. 
4 The lazy man says to himself that the cold is a sufficient reason not to plow. Therefore he will beseech during the harvest, and will have nothing. 
5 The plans of a man's heart are like deep waters. But a man of understanding knows how to make a good choice. 
6 Many people declare each one his goodness and the uprightness of his heart. And who can identify a faithful man if not with the help of God. 
7 The righteous man walks in his integrity, and his children are blessed after him.
8 A king is established to sit on the throne of judgment and repel the evil with his eyes by ordering to do what is right. 
9 How many people can say: I have purified my heart, and now I am clean from my sin. 
10 Two kinds of weights or two kinds of measures, both are an abomination to [the spirit of] Yahweh. [For God desires that the laws be the same for everyone.] 
11 The actions of a child already allow to have an idea about his true personality, and to know if he likes what is pure and fair or not. 
12 The hearing ear and the seeing eye, Yahweh has made them both. 
13 Do not love sleep, lest you become poor [in all kinds of wealth]. Open your eyes, and you will have enough bread. 
14 It is not such a good deal, it is not such a good deal, says the buyer who knows the value of a product. But when he has gone on his way, then he boasts. 
15 You can own gold and a multitude of precious stones, but the lips of wisdom have more value. 
16 Take his garment, for he has made himself a surety for a stranger. Exact from him a pledge, because of the stranger. 
17 The bread of deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel. 
18 Plans are established by counsel. Wage war by wise guidance. 
19 He who reveals secrets is like a slanderer. Do not associate with one who opens his lips without necessity. 
20 If a man curses his father or his mother, then his lamp will be extinguished in total darkness. 
21 . 
22 Wait for Yahweh, and he will save you. Do not say: I also will plan an act that is not publicly justifiable in order to repay an evil. 
23 Yahweh abhors those who have two kinds of weights [because they do not use the same laws in their interactions with different other people]. And a false scale is not good [in his sight]. 
24 The steps of a man are directed by Yahweh. How then can a man understand his own way. 
25 It is a snare to a man to make a sacred covenant lightly, and to take heed only after he has vowed. 
26 A wise king identifies the wicked and punishes them appropriately. [A wicked is a person who cannot provide publicly acceptable justifications for his behavior in a situation that require it, considering only the information available to him at the time of the event.]
27 The spirit of man is the lamp of Yahweh, searching all his innermost parts.  
28 Justice and faithfulness preserve a king, for his throne will be established by justice. 
29 The glory of young men is their strength, and the beauty of old men is the grey head. 
30 .
