1 Praise Yahweh because he is good, for his mercy endures forever. 
2 Let Israel say now: For his mercy endures forever. 
3 Let the house of Aaron say now: For his mercy endures forever. 
4 Let those who fear Yahweh say now: For his mercy endures forever. 
5 I have called on Yahweh in distress. And Yahweh has heard me, and has set me free. 
6 Yahweh is with me, therefore I will not fear. For what can man do to me. 
7 Yahweh is my helper. Therefore I will triumph over my enemies. 
8 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh than to have confidence in man. 
9 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh than to have confidence in great leaders. 
10 All nations can surround me, but I will prevail over them by the name of Yahweh. 
11 They can surround me again and again, but I will prevail over them by the name of Yahweh. 
12 They can surround me like bees, but they will be quenched like a fire of thorns. For I will prevail over them by the name of Yahweh. 
13 You have pushed me to make me fall, but Yahweh has helped me. 
14 Yahweh is my strength and my song. For he has been my salvation [since he has given me reasons to hope]. 
15 The voice of triumph and salvation rises from the tents of the righteous, and it said: The right hand of Yahweh is powerful. 
16 The right hand of Yahweh is exalted, the right hand of Yahweh is powerful. 
17 I will not die, but I will live. And I will declare the works of Yahweh. 
18 Yahweh has chastened me painfully, but he has not given me to death. 
19 Open to me the gates of righteousness. For I will enter into them to praise Yahweh. 
20 It is the gate of Yahweh, and the righteous will enter into it. 
21 I will praise you because you have heard me, and have been my salvation [since you have given me reasons to hope]. 
22 The stone that the builders have rejected has become the head stone of the corner. 
23 And it is a work of Yahweh, and it is marvelous in our eyes. 
24 This is the day that Yahweh has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. 
25 O Yahweh, we beseech you to give salvation now. O Yahweh, we beseech you to give prosperity now. 
26 Blessed is he who has come in the name of Yahweh. We have blessed you from [the place of] the house of Yahweh. 
27 Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, and bring it to the horns of the altar.
28 You are my God, and I will praise you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. 
29 Praise Yahweh because he is good, for his mercy endures forever. 
