1 Praise Yahweh and call on his name. Declare his deeds among the peoples. 
2 Sing to him, sing praises to him. Tell of all his wondrous works. 
3 Rejoice in his holy name. Let the hearts of those who seek Yahweh rejoice. 
4 Seek Yahweh and his strength, seek his face continuously. 
5 Remember his marvellous works that he has done, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth. 
6 O you the seed of Abraham his servant, you the children of Jacob who are his chosen. 
7 Yahweh is our God, and he makes his judgments throughout the whole earth. 
8 He has always remembered his covenant, the promise that he made to a thousand generations. 
9 The covenant that he made with Abraham, and the oath that he swore to Isaac. 
10 He has confirmed it to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant. 
11 For he said [to each of them, and they all died according to the flesh without the fulfillment of this promise]: I will give you the land of Canaan which is the lot of your inheritance [the land from which your inheritance will be established by the chosen one, the Shiloh of the tribe of Judah in whom will be the obedience of the peoples according to the blessings that Jacob announced before his death].  
12 At that time they were few in number [each of them and his possessions who were his family and his servants], very few, and they were strangers in that land.  
13 And at that time they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people. 
14 But Yahweh suffered no man to hurt them, and he rebuked kings for their sakes. 
15 For he said: Do not touch my anointed ones, and do not harm my prophets. 
16 He called for a famine on the land, and utterly broke the staff of bread. 
17 But he had sent a man before them. For Joseph was sold to become a slave. 
18 They bonded his feet with rope, and put his neck in chains of irons. 
19 And he remained a slave until the time when he was justified by the word of Yahweh. 
20 Then the king sent and loosed him. Yes, the ruler of the people freed him. 
21 And he made Joseph lord of his house, and ruler of all his possessions. 
22 So that Joseph might lead his princes at his pleasure, and teach his elders wisdom. 
23 Then Israel came to Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
24 And God increased his people exceedingly, and made them stronger than their oppressors. 
25 He had turned their hearts to cause them to hate his people, and to act treacherously toward his servants [the children of Israel]. 
26 Then he sent Moses his servant, and Aaron whom he had chosen. 
27 And they performed his signs among the Egyptians. They performed wonders in the land of Ham. 
28 He sent darkness and brought thick darkness, yet his messengers [Moses and Aaron] did not disobey his commission. 
29 He turned the waters of the Egyptians into blood, and destroyed their fish. 
30 And their land swarmed with frogs, even in the private rooms of their king. 
31 He spoke, and there came swarms of flies and lice throughout all their land. 
32 He gave them hail for rain, and flames of fire in their land. 
33 He smote their vines also, and their fig trees, and broke the trees of their land. 
34 He spoke, and grasshoppers and caterpillars came, innumerable. 
35 And they devoured all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. 
36 He smote also all the firstborn in their land, all the firstfruits of their strength. 
37 And he brought out his people with silver and gold, and each person of their tribes was reinvigorated. 
38 And the Egyptians rejoiced at their departure. For they had been seized by the fear of the children of Jacob. 
39 And God did spread a cloud to cover them [in the daytime], and fire to give light in the night. 
40 And he brought quails at their request, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. 
41 He opened the rock, and waters gushed out and ran in the dry places like a river. 
42 For he remembered his holy promise to Abraham his servant. 
43 And he brought forth his people with joy, his chosen ones with gladness. 
44 And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took the labors of the peoples in possession. 
45 In order to keep his statutes, and to observe his laws. Praise Yahweh.
