1 Praise Yahweh because he is good. For his mercy endures forever. 
2 Praise the God of gods, for his mercy endures forever. 
3 Praise the Lord of lords, for his mercy endures forever. 
4 He is the only one to do great wonders, for his mercy endures forever.
5 Praise the one who made the heavens by his wisdom, for his mercy endures forever. 
6 Praise the one who stretched out the earth on the waters, for his mercy endures forever. 
7 Praise the one who made great lights, for his mercy endures forever.
8 Praise the one who made the sun to rule the day, for his mercy endures forever. 
9 Praise the one who made the moon and the stars to rule the night, for his mercy endures forever. 
10 Praise the one who smote the firstborn males in Egypt, for his mercy endures forever. 
11 He brought out Israel from among the Egyptians, for his mercy endures forever. 
12 And he did it with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm, for his mercy endures forever. 
13 And he divided the red sea in two parts, for his mercy endures forever. 
14 And he caused Israel to go across the sea on dry land, in the midst of the red sea, for his mercy endures forever. 
15 And he overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the red sea, for his mercy endures forever. 
16 And he led his people through the wilderness, for his mercy endures forever. 
17 And he smote great kingdoms, for his mercy endures forever.
18 And he killed powerful kings [whom he caused to kill], for his mercy endures forever. 
19 Sihon king of the Amorites, for his mercy endures forever.
20 And Og the king of Bashan, for his mercy endures forever.
21 And he gave their land for an inheritance, for his mercy endures forever. 
22 An inheritance for Israel his servant, for his mercy endures forever. 
23 And he remembered us when we were humiliated, for his mercy endures forever. 
24 And he freed us from our oppressors, for his mercy endures forever. 
25 He is the one who gives food to all living things, for his mercy endures forever. 
26 Praise the God of heaven, for his mercy endures forever.
