1 A psalm of David. I had put my hope in Yahweh. And he has looked at me, and has heard my cry. 
2 And he has brought me out of the pit of destruction, out of the boggy clay. He has set my feet on the rock, and he has established my steps. 
3 He has put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see it, and they will fear and trust in Yahweh. 
4 Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust. Such a man does not envy the liars [who deceive others without having publicly acceptable justifications in their hearts] or the proud. 
5 O Yahweh my God, your wonderful works and plans toward us are so many that no one can set them in order before you. I would like to declare them and talk about them, but they are more than what I am able to express. 
6 You do not really want animal sacrifices or meal offerings, you have opened my ears to understand it. You do not really want burnt offerings or sin offerings. 
7 Therefore I said, 'Lo, I come'. And it is written of me in the content of the book. 
8 O my God, I take pleasure in doing your will. And your law is deep inside my heart. 
9 I have proclaimed your righteousness in the great assembly. And behold, O Yahweh, you know that I will not refrain my lips. 
10 I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart, but I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your mercy and your truth in the great assembly.
11 Do not withhold your tender mercy from me, O Yahweh. Let your mercy and your truth preserve me continuously. 
12 For I am surrounded by innumerable troubles. My sins have overcome me and I am not able to lift up my head. They are more numerous than the hairs of my head, therefore I have lost my courage. 
13 May it please you to set me free, O Yahweh. Come quickly to my aid. 
14 Let them be ashamed and confused together, all those who seek my soul to destroy it. Let them turn back and be rebuked, all those who want to hurt me. 
15 Let them be astonished by their shame, all those who say about me: Aha, aha. 
16 Give to all those who seek you reasons to rejoice in you and to be happy. Give to all those who love your salvation reasons to say continuously: Yahweh is worthy of praise.
17 As for me, I am poor and needy but Yahweh thinks about me. You are my helper and my savior. Do not delay, O my God.
