1 A psalm of David the servant of Yahweh. He spoke the words of this song to Yahweh in the day [at the time] when Yahweh had saved him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul. He said: I love you, O Yahweh my strength. 
2 Yahweh is my rock, and my fortress, and my savior. He is my God and my strength, the one in whom I trust. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, he is my refuge. 
3 I will call on Yahweh, because he is worthy to be praised. And thus I will be saved from my enemies. 
4 The ropes of death had surrounded me, and the floods of the ungodly men had made me afraid. 
5 The ropes of the grave had surrounded me, and the snares of death had come on me. 
6 But in my distress I have called on Yahweh. I cried to my God, and he heard my voice from his temple. My cry came before him, and into his ears. 
7 Then the earth was shaken and it trembled. And the foundations of the mountains were shaken and moved, because he was angry. 
8 Smoke went out of his nostrils, and a consuming fire out of his mouth, and coals were kindled. 
9 He lowered the heavens and he came down, and darkness was under his feet.
10 He rode on the cherub and flew, and he was seen on the wings of the wind.
11 He wrapped himself in darkness that covered him like a tent, and he was hidden by dark clouds filled with water. 
12 Hailstones and lightnings came out from the clouds because of the splendor of his presence.
13 Yahweh also thundered from the heaven, the Highest uttered his voice with hailstones and coals of fire.
14 He shot his arrows and scattered my enemies, he sent lightnings which confused them. 
15 The bed of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were exposed by your rebuke, O Yahweh, by the sound of the breath of your nostrils.
16 He stretched out his hand from above and grasped me, he took me out of the many waters. 
17 He saved me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, because they were too mighty for me. 
18 They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support.
19 He has saved me and he has set me free, because he loves me.
20 Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, he has recompensed me according to the purity of my hands. 
21 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and I have not been guilty towards my God. 
22 For all his laws were before me, and I did not cast away his commandments from me. 
23 I was honest with him, and I have kept myself against my iniquity. 
24 Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the purity of my hands in his sight. 
25 You show yourself good with the one who is good, and you act uprightly with the upright man. 
26 You show yourself pure with him who is pure, and with the perverse you act according to his perversity. 
27 You save the people who humble themselves, and you cast down the haughty eyes. 
28 Yahweh my God enlightens my darkness. Surely you will light my lamp. 
29 I rush towards an armed troop because of you, I jump over a wall because of my God. 
30 The way of God is uncorrupted, the word of Yahweh is tested and proved to be reliable. He is a shield to all those who trust in him. 
31 For who is God besides Yahweh, and who is a refuge except our God. 
32 God girds me with strength, and he guides me to the right path. 
33 He makes my feet like those of a deer, and he places me on my high places. 
34 He teaches my hands to fight, so that a bow of brass is broken by my arms. 
35 You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your right hand sustains me, and I have become great because of your goodness. 
36 You widen the path under my feet, and my feet do not waver. 
37 I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them, I have not turned until I had consumed them. 
38 I have smitten them, and they will not arise again, but they will fall under my feet. 
39 You have girded me with strength for battle, and you have subdued under me those who had risen against me. 
40 You have caused my enemies to turn their backs before me, and I have overcome those who hated me. 
41 They looked around them, and there was no one to save them. And they cried out to Yahweh, but he did not answer them. 
42 And I crushed them in small pieces like the dust of the earth, and I trampled them like the mud of the streets. 
43 You have saved me from the dissensions of the people, and you have kept me as ruler of the nations. A people whom I did not know serve me. 
44 The sons of foreigners flatter me, they obey me at the first command. 
45 The sons of foreigners are weakened and come out of their strongholds trembling. 
46 Yahweh is alive, blessed be the God of my strength. Let the strength of my salvation be exalted. 
47 The God who is my avenger, who subdues the peoples to me.
48 He rescues me from my enemies. You help me to defeat those who rise against me, you save me from the violent man. 
49 Therefore I will praise you among the nations, O Yahweh, and I will sing to the glory of your name. 
50 He makes great deliverances for his king and he shows mercy to his anointed, to David and to his seed forever.
