1 A psalm of David [which is consistent with the state of mind that he might have had when he fled because of his son Absalom who stole the hearts of the people without king David suspecting it, and which contain poetic words to describe a period of suffering of any person who clings to the spirit of justice]. Save me, O God. For the waters threaten my soul. 
2 I sink in deep mire, and there is nothing that I can grasp. I have fallen into deep waters, where the floods overflow me. 
3 I am weary because of my cry, and my throat is dried. My eyes fail while I wait for my God. 
4 Those who hate me without a cause are more numerous than the hairs of my head. Those who want to destroy me are unjustly my enemies, and are strong. I have to restore what I have not stolen. 
5 You know my faults, O God. My sins are not hidden from you [namely I have sought to expiate them by the procedure indicated in your law]. 
6 Let not those who trust in you because of me be ashamed, O Lord Yahweh the God of armies. Let not those who seek you because of me be bewildered, O God of Israel. 
7 It is for your sake that I suffer insults [for I do not want to transgress your law], and shame has covered my face. 
8 I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons. 
9 For the zeal for your house has devoured me, and the insults of those who do not honor you properly have fallen on me. 
10 I weep and my soul fasts, but I was reproached for it. 
11 I have put on sackcloth for my clothing, and I have become a proverb to them. 
12 Those who sit in the gate speak of me, and the drunkards sing of me. 
13 But my prayer is to you, O Yahweh. May the time be favorable, O God, by your great goodness. Answer me in the truth of your salvation. 
14 Rescue me from the mire, do not let me sink. Let me be saved from the hands of those who hate me, and out of the deep waters. 
15 Let not the floods overwhelm me, and let not the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit close its mouth on me. 
16 Hear me, O Yahweh, according to the greatness of your lovingkindness. Turn to me according to the multitude of your tender mercies. 
17 Do not hide your face from your servant, because I am in distress. Answer me speedily. 
18 Come near to my soul and redeem it. Save me because of my enemies. 
19 You know how I have been reproached, and my shame, and my dishonor. All my adversaries are before you. 
20 Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of weariness. I look for some of them to have pity on me, but in vain. I look for comforters, but I find none. 
21 They gave me gall for my food, and to quench my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 
22 Let their table become a snare before them, and let their prosperity be the source of their misfortunes. 
23 Let their eyes be darkened so that they see not, and cause their waists to tremble continually. 
24 Pour out your anger on them, and let your fierce fury seize them. 
25 Let their dwelling be desolate, let there be no dweller in their tents [that is to say, do not allow their own legacies to be admired continuously]. 
26 For they persecute him whom you have smitten. They add to the sorrow of those whom you have wounded. 
27 Add iniquity to their iniquity, and let them not profit from your mercy. 
28 Let them be blotted out of the book of life, let them not be written with the righteous. 
29 As for me, I am powerless and sorrowful. Let your salvation set me up on high, O God. 
30 I will sing praises to the name of God, I will exalt him with thanksgiving. 
31 Because it is more pleasing to Yahweh than an ox or a bullock that have horns and hoofs. 
32 The humble will see it and will be glad. The hearts of those who seek God will live. 
33 For Yahweh hears the powerless. He does not despise those who are unjustly oppressed. 
34 Let the heaven and the earth praise him, and also the seas and everything that moves in them.
35 .
36 .
