1 A psalm. Shout joyfully to God, you all the inhabitants of the earth. 
2 Sing the glory of his name, make his praise glorious. 
3 Say to God: You are awesome in your works. Your enemies will submit themselves to you because of the greatness of your power. 
4 The whole world will worship you and sing to you. They will sing to your name. Pause. 
5 Come and contemplate the works of God. He is awesome in his doings toward the children of men. 
6 He has turned the sea into dry land, and they went through the river on foot. We rejoiced there in him. 
7 He rules the world forever by his power, his eyes watch the nations. Therefore the rebellious should not exalt themselves. Pause. 
8 Praise our God, O peoples, and make the voice of his praise to be heard. 
9 He who preserves our soul alive, and suffers not our foot to slip.
10 For all that you do is to test us, O God. You refine us like silver is refined. 
11 You have brought us into a snare, and have laid a heavy burden on our waists. 
12 You have caused men to ride on our heads, we went through fire and through water. But you have brought us out, in order to give us abundance. 
13 I will come to your house with burnt offerings, and I will also pay my vows to you. 
14 Because my lips had promised it. My mouth had spoken it in my affliction.
15 I will offer you burnt offerings of fat rams, with incense. And I will sacrifice bullocks and goats. Pause. 
16 Come and listen, you all who fear God, and I will tell you what he has done for my soul. 
17 I have cried out to him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. 
18 if I had hidden a sin my heart [that is to say a transgression that had not been expiated by the procedure indicated in his law], then the Lord would not have heard me. 
19 So God has heard me [because I had in my heart no wickedness that I had never sought to expiate by the procedure indicated in his law]. He has been attentive to the voice of my prayer [because he has provided me with an adequate assistance]. 
20 Blessed be God who has not rejected my prayer, and has not taken away his lovingkindness from me.
