1 A psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me. Why are you far from helping me, and not listening to the words of my groaning. 
2 O my God, I cry in the daytime and I am not silent in the night, but you do not answer. 
3 Nevertheless you are the holy one, and you inhabit the praises of Israel. 
4 Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted, and you save them.
5 They cried to you, and were saved. They trusted in you, and were not disappointed. 
6 But I am a worm and not a man. People make fun of me and despise me. 
7 All those who see me mock me. They open their mouths and shake their heads. 
8 ​​And they say: Call on Yahweh, and he will save you. He will rescue you because he loves you. 
9 But you brought me out of the womb of my mother. I have trusted in you before the time when I was on my mother's breasts.
10 I was joined to you from the womb of my mother. You are my God since the time when I was in my mother's belly. 
11 Do not be far from me. For trouble is near, and there is no other to help me. 
12 There are many bulls around me, strong bulls of Bashan have surrounded me. 
13 They open their mouths against me, like a lion who tears and roars. 
14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax, it is melted in my bowels. 
15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue is attached to my palate. You have brought me into the dust of death. 
16 For dogs have surrounded me, a company of evildoers have inclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. 
17 I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. 
18 They divide my garments among them, they cast lots for my tunic. 
19 But you are not far away, O Yahweh. You are my strength, come quickly to help me. 
20 Save my soul from the sword, my life from the power of the dogs. 
21 Save me from the lion's mouth, protect me from the horns of the bull. 
22 I will declare your name among my brothers, I will sing praises to you in the midst of the assembly. 
23 Praise Yahweh, you who fear him. Glorify him, you all the seed of Jacob. Tremble before him, you all the seed of Israel.
24 For he will not despise or disdain the affliction of the powerless. He will not hide his face from the powerless, but he will hear when the powerless cries to him. 
25 You will be my praise in the great assembly, I will pay my vows before those who fear him. 
26 The powerless will eat and be satisfied. Those who seek Yahweh will praise him. Your heart will live forever [the heart of the powerless]. 
27 All the ends of the world will remember Yahweh and turn to him. All the families of the nations will worship before you.
28 For the kingship belongs to Yahweh, and he rules among the nations. 
29 All the powerful persons of the earth will also eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust will bow before him, each of those who cannot keep their lives. 
30 His seed will serve him, for the Lord will be spoken of in the next generation. 
31 Each generation will proclaim his righteousness [the righteousness of the Lord] to the next who will be born, they will proclaim the work that he has done.
