1 I put my trust in you, O Yahweh. Let me never be confused. 
2 Rescue me and save me in your righteousness. Incline your ear to me and help me. 
3 Be the rock of my refuge, to which I will always turn. You have determined to save me, because you are my rock and my fortress. 
4 O my God, save me from the hand of the wicked, from the hand of the unjust and violent man. 
5 For you are my hope, O Lord Yahweh. I have trusted in you since my youth. 
6 From my mother's womb I have leaned on you. You are the one who brought me out of the womb. My praise will be continuously for you. 
7 I am like a wonder to many, but you are my strong refuge. 
8 Let my mouth be filled with your praise, let it glorify you every day. 
9 Do not cast me away in the time of old age, do not abandon me when my strength is diminished. 
10 For my enemies speak against me, and those who watch for my soul take counsel together. 
11 And they say: God has forsaken him. Now therefore, pursue and seize him because there is no one to rescue him. 
12 Do not be far from me, O God. Come quickly to help me, O my God. 
13 Let them be bewildered and destroyed, those who are against my soul. Let them be covered with shame and dishonor, those who seek my destruction. 
14 As for me, I will hope continuously. I will praise you more and more. 
15 My mouth will proclaim your righteousness and your salvation every day. For I do not know their numbers [since they are too many]. 
16 I will tell of your mighty works, O Lord Yahweh. I will make mention of your righteousness, only yours. 
17 You have taught me from my youth and until now, O God. I will tell of your wondrous works. 
18 Do not forsake me in my old age when I become gray-headed, O God. Until I have declared your strength to this generation, and your power to all those who are to come. 
19 Your righteousness is very high, O God. You have done great things, O God. Who is like you. 
20 You have made me experience many distresses and misfortunes, but you will refresh me. You will bring me up from the depths of the earth. 
21 Raise up my honor, turn again and comfort me. 
22 And I will praise you with the psaltery to make known your faithfulness, O my God. I will sing praises to you with the harp, O you the holy one of Israel.
23 My lips will rejoice greatly when I sing praises to you. And my soul too, because you will have redeem it. 
24 And my tongue will proclaim your righteousness all the day long. For those who seek my destruction will be bewildered and ashamed.
