1 O Yahweh God to whom vengeance belongs, O God to whom vengeance belongs, show yourself. 
2 Arise, you the judge of the earth, and reward the proud according to their works. 
3 How long will the wicked triumph, O Yahweh. How long will the wicked triumph. 
4 They prate and speak arrogantly, all the workers of iniquity boast themselves. 
5 They hurt your people, O Yahweh. They oppress your inheritance. 
6 They kill the widow and the sojourner. They murder the fatherless. 
7 And they say: Yahweh does not look, the God of Jacob does not consider. 
8 Hear, you among the people who are unwise. When will you become wise, you the fools. 
9 Will the one who made the ear not hear. Will the one who formed the eye not see. 
10 Will the one who punishes the nations not rebuke. Will the one who teaches man knowledge not understand. 
11 Yahweh knows the thoughts of man, he knows that they are futile. 
12 Blessed is the man whom you discipline in order to teach him your law, O Yahweh. 
13 For you will preserve him in the time of his affliction, while the pit is dug for the wicked. 
14 Surely Yahweh will not abandon his people, nor forget his inheritance. 
15 For judgment will be according to righteousness, and all those who are upright in heart will be approved. 
16 Who will rise up for me against the wicked. Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity. 
17 If Yahweh had not been my help, my soul would soon have dwelt in the darkness. 
18 When I see that my foot slips, then your mercy support me, O Yahweh. 
19 In the multitude of thoughts of my heart, your promises comfort my soul.
20 Does the throne of iniquity have fellowship with you. Do those who use your statutes to plan deceit have a share in your love. 
21 They gather together against the soul of the righteous, and they condemn the innocent blood. 
22 But Yahweh is my hope. My God is the rock of my refuge. 
23 He will bring their wickedness on them, he will destroy them in their own malice. Yes, Yahweh our God will destroy them.
