1 A psalm of David [which is a prophecy concerning another person]. Do not be silent, O God of my praise. 
2 For they have opened against me a wicked and deceitful mouth. They have spoken to me with a lying tongue. 
3 They have surrounded me with words of hatred, and have fought against me without a cause. 
4 They are my adversaries while I love them, but I turn myself to prayer. 
5 They have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 
6 Set a wicked man at his side, let an adversary stand at his right hand. 
7 When he is judged, let him be found guilty and let his prayer be turned into sin. 
8 Let his days be few, and let another fulfill his work [that is to say, the work that he would have done if he had not turned away from you]. 
9 Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 
10 Let his children be vagabonds and beggars. Let them seek their bread far from their desolate places. 
11 Let the creditor seize all that belong to him, and let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor. 
12 Let no one show him kindness, and let no one have pity on his fatherless children. 
13 Let his posterity be destroyed, and let their name be extinguished in the following generation. 
14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before Yahweh, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
15 Let them be continuously before Yahweh, so that he may cut off their legacy from the earth. 
16 Because he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy, to the point of killing the brokenhearted. 
17 He loved to curse others, therefore let curses be on him. He never blessed others, therefore let there be no blessing on him. 
18 Let him wear his curses like a garment, and let it go into his inward parts like water, and into his bones like oil. 
19 Let it be his garment to cover himself, and the girdle with which he is girded continuously.
20 Let this be the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh, and of those who speak evil against my soul. 
21 But you will do for me what is right because of your name, O Lord Yahweh. Save me, for your goodness is great. 
22 I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me. 
23 I am dying like the shadow that declines, I am driven away like a grasshopper. 
24 My knees are weak because of fasting, and my body has lost all his fat. 
25 I have become an object of reproach to them. They look at me and shake their heads. 
26 Help me, O Yahweh my God. Save me because of your mercy. 
27 And thus they will know that it is your hand. They will understand that you allowed all these things to happen because of your goals, O Yahweh. 
28 Although they curse, you will bless. They arise, but they will be bewildered while your servant will rejoice. 
29 Let my adversaries be clothed with shame. Let them cover themselves with their bewilderments as with a robe. 
30 I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth, I will praise him among the multitude. 
31 For he will stand at the right hand of the powerless, to save him from those who condemn his soul.
