1 A psalm of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the mercies of Yahweh forever. My mouth will declare your faithfulness to all future generations. 
2 For I say: Goodness has everlasting foundations, you have established your faithfulness in the heavens. 
3 And you have said: I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn the following thing to David my servant. 
4 I will establish your seed throughout all future generations [namely your spiritual children], and establish your throne forever [namely the legacy of your kingship]. Pause. 
5 The heavens celebrate your wondrous works, O Yahweh. And your faithfulness is celebrated in the assembly of the saints.
6 For who in the heaven can be compared with Yahweh. Who among the heavenly beings is like Yahweh. 
7 God is very terrible in the assembly of the saints. He is to be feared above all those who are around him [that is to say, above all the heavenly beings]. 
8 Who is like you, O Yahweh the God of armies. A mighty God who is surrounded by the faithfulness [which is yours]. 
9 You subdue the pride of the sea, you calm its waves when they arise. 
10 You have crushed Egypt like a corpse. You have scattered your enemies with the power of your arm. 
11 The heavens and the earth belong to you. You have founded the world and all that is in it. 
12 You have created the north and the south. The mountains Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name. 
13 Your arm is powerful. Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted. 
14 Righteousness and fairness are the foundation of your throne. Mercy and faithfulness walk before your face. 
15 Blessed are the persons who rejoice in you. For they walk in the light of your face, O Yahweh. 
16 They rejoice continuously in your name, and they will be exalted by your righteousness. 
17 For you are the source of their strength. It is your contentment that forms our glory. 
18 For Yahweh is our shield. The holy one of Israel is our king. 
19 You once spoke in a vision to one of your beloveds, for your prophets are your beloveds, and you said: I have assisted a mighty man. I have found the one who deserves to be exalted among my people. [He was not old enough to be appointed at the time when the people demanded that a first king be established over them. He had not the age of the men of war, and it was one of the criteria at that moment.]
20 I have found David my servant, and have anointed him with my holy oil. 
21 My hand will establish him, and my arm will strengthen him.
22 The enemy will not overcome him, the wicked will not destroy him. 
23 I will crush his adversaries before him, and I will smite those who hate him. 
24 My lovingkindness and my faithfulness will be with him, and his horn will be exalted by my name. 
25 I will set his hand on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers. 
26 He will invoke me by saying: You are my father, my God and the rock of my salvation. 
27 And I will make him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. 
28 My love will protect him forever. My covenant with him will not be of a nature that can become invalid. 
29 I will cause his legacy to last forever. His throne, namely the legacy of his kingship, will remain before me as long as the days of heaven. 
30 If his sons forsake my law and do not walk in my judgments.
31 If they violate my precepts and do not observe my commandments. 
32 Then I will punish their transgressions with the rod, and their iniquities with strokes. 
33 But I will not withdraw my lovingkindness from him, and I will not allow my faithfulness to fail. 
34 I will not break my covenant, and I will not alter what has come out of my lips. 
35 I have sworn it by my holiness, I will not lie to David. 
36 His legacy will endure forever. The legacy of his kingship will remain in front of me like the sun. 
37 It will last forever like the moon. The witness who is in the heaven is faithful. Pause. 
38 But you have rejected and abhorred. You have been angry with [those who bear the legacy of] your anointed. 
39 You have disregarded the covenant of your servant, you have desecrated his crown by casting it to the ground. 
40 You have destroyed all his fences, you have ruined his fortresses. 
41 All those who pass by the way rob him. He has become an object of rebuke to his neighbors. 
42 You have lifted up the right hand of his enemies, and you have rejoiced all his adversaries. 
43 You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and have not allowed him to stand in the battle. 
44 You have caused his dignity to decline, and have cast his throne to the ground. 
45 You have shortened the days of his youth, since you have quickly covered him with shame. Pause. 
46 How much longer, O Yahweh. Will you hide your face forever. How long will your anger burn like fire. 
47 Remember what the duration of my life is. Have you created all the children of men without purpose. 
48 Is there a man who can live and not see death [by remaining alive in his flesh]. Will anyone escape the grave. Pause. 
49 Lord, where are your former mercies which you swore to David in your truth. 
50 Consider the shame suffered at this time by your servants [who carry the legacy of David]. Remember that I carry numerous peoples in my bosom [since you have told Abraham that all the families of the earth will be blessed through his legacy]. 
51 Remember the insults of your enemies, O Yahweh. They have insulted the footsteps of [David] your anointed. 
52 Blessed be Yahweh forever. So be it, so be it.
