1 A psalm of Asaph. Hear my teaching, O my people. Give ear to the words of my mouth. 
2 I open my mouth in a parable. I will utter the wisdom of old.
3 What we have heard and known, what our fathers have told us. 
4 We will not hide it from their children [the spiritual or fleshly descendants], we will tell the next generation about the praises of Yahweh, and his strength, and his wondrous deeds that he has done. 
5 He established a testimony in Jacob, he gave a law for Israel. And he commanded our fathers to teach it to their children. 
6 To make it known to the children who should be born, and to the posterity. And they will grow up and tell their children too. 
7 So that they may set their hope in God. So that they may not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. 
8 And thus they may not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation. A generation whose heart was not steadfast, and whose spirit was not faithful to God. 
9 The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle. 
10 They had not kept the covenant of God, they had refused to walk in his law. 
11 They had forgotten his deeds, his wondrous works that he had shown them [to their fathers]. 
12 He had done marvellous things in the sight of their fathers, in the field of Zoan in the land of Egypt. 
13 He divided the sea and and led them to pass through. He caused the waters to stand as a heap [like a wall]. 
14 He led their fathers with a cloud during the day, and with a light of fire all night. 
15 He did split the rocks in the wilderness, and gave their fathers to drink as if water came out of the great depths. 
16 He also brought a stream of water out of the rock, and made it flow like a river. 
17 But they continued to sin against him. They rebelled against the Most High in the wilderness. 
18 And they tested God in their heart, by demanding meat for their desire. 
19 They spoke against God by saying: Can God prepare a table in the wilderness. 
20 Behold he smote the rock and the waters gushed out, and the river flowed. Can he also give bread. Can he provide meat for his people. 
21 And Yahweh heard it, and the fire of his anger was kindled against Jacob. And a wrath arose against Israel. 
22 Because they did not believe in God, and did not trust in his salvation. 
23 Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and had opened the doors of heaven. 
24 And he had rained down manna on them for food. He had given them of the wheat of heaven. 
25 They all had eaten the bread of princes. God had sent them food to the full. 
26 He caused the east wind to blow in the heaven, and brought the south wind by his power. 
27 He rained down meat on them like dust, and winged birds like the sand of the sea. 
28 And he made it fall in the midst of their camp, all around their habitations. 
29 So they ate and were well filled, for God had given them their desire. 
30 But before they had satisfied their desire, when the meat was yet in their mouths. 
31 Then the anger of God rose against them, and he struck the strongest ones with death. He smote down the young men of Israel. 
32 And despite all this, they continued to sin. They did not trust in his wondrous works [that he can do for those who cling to him]. 
33 Therefore he consumed their days in vanity, and their years in trouble. 
34 When he killed some them, then the others sought him and they returned. They sought God earnestly. 
35 They remembered that God was their strength, and that the Most High God was their redeemer. 
36 But it was only to flatter him with their mouth, and to deceive him with their tongue. 
37 For their hearts were not steadfast toward him, and they were not faithful in his covenant. 
38 However he forgave their iniquity and did not destroy them, because he is merciful. Yes, he did turn away his anger many times, and did not awake all his fury. 
39 For he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and does not return. 
40 They frequently rebelled against him in the wilderness. They frequently grieved him in the wilderness. 
41 They did not cease to test God, to provoke the holy one of Israel. 
42 They did not remember his hand, nor the day when he save them from the enemy. 
43 The signs that he performed in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan. 
44 He turned their rivers into blood, and their streams, so that they could not drink their water. 
45 He sent swarms of flies among them to devour them, and frogs to destroy them. 
46 He also gave their fruit to caterpillars, and their labor to the grasshoppers. 
47 He destroyed their vineyards with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost. 
48 He also gave their cattle to the hail, and their flocks to the thunderbolts. 
49 He cast on them the fierceness of his anger, his fury, his indignation, a great distress, by sending evil angels to them.
50 He made a way to his anger. He did not spared their souls from death, but gave their lives to the pestilence. 
51 And he smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the firstfruits of their strength in the tents of Ham. 
52 But he led his people out like sheep. He led them like a flock in the wilderness. 
53 He led them safely, and they were not afraid. But the sea covered their enemies. 
54 He brought them to the borders of his sanctuary, to this mountain that his right hand had purchased. 
55 He drove out the nations before them, and he distributed the land to them as an inheritance. He gave a place to live to the tribes of Israel. 
56 But they tested the Most High God and rebelled against him. They did not keep his testimonies. 
57 They turned aside and acted falsely like their fathers. They turned like a deceitful bow. 
58 They provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to fury with their graven images. 
59 God heard it and was angry, and he greatly abhorred Israel.
60 Therefore he forsook the dwelling place of Shiloh, the tabernacle where he dwelt among men. 
61 And he delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the hand of their enemy. [The people that he had redeemed to be his inheritance]. 
62 And he gave his people to the sword, because he was angry against his inheritance. 
63 The fire devoured their young men, and their virgins were not praised. 
64 Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows did not weep. 
65 Then the Lord awoke as one from sleep, as a strong man after the effects of wine have worn off. 
66 And he smote his enemies in their buttocks, and covered them with an everlasting shame. 
67 However he rejected the tent of Joseph, he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim. 
68 But he chose the tribe of Judah, and mount Zion which he loved. 
69 And he built his sanctuary like a high palace, like the earth that he has established forever. 
70 And he chose David his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds. 
71 He took David who was following the ewes with their young, and he caused David to be shepherd of Jacob his people and of Israel his inheritance.
72 So David shepherded them according to the simplicity of his heart, and David guided them by the prudence of his hands.
