1 My soul blesses Yahweh. O Yahweh my God, you are exceedingly great. You are clothed with glory and majesty. 
2 He covers himself with light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain. 
3 He lays the beams of his chambers in the waters, and makes the clouds his chariot. He rides on the wings of the wind. 
4 He makes his spirits his messengers, and flames of fire his ministers. 
5 He has established the earth on its foundations, it will never be moved. 
6 You covered it with the depths as with a garment, and the waters stood above the mountains. 
7 But they fled at your rebuke, they ran away at the sound of your thunder. 
8 The mountains ascended, and the valleys descended, and the waters went to the place that you had set for them. 
9 And you have set a limit that the waters will not cross, so that they will no longer return to cover the earth. 
10 He sends springs into the valleys, and they flow between the mountains. 
11 They give drink to all the animals of the fields, and the wild donkeys quench their thirst there. 
12 The birds of the air live on their banks, and sing among the branches. 
13 He waters the mountains from his chambers, and the earth is filled with the fruit of his works. 
14 He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and also the herb for the needs of man, so that the earth may produce food.
15 And also wine that makes the heart of man glad, and oil to cause his face to shine, and bread that strengthens the heart of man. 
16 The trees of Yahweh are satisfied, namely the cedars of Lebanon which he has planted. 
17 The birds make their nests there, while the stork's dwelling is in the fir trees. 
18 The high mountains are a refuge for wild goats, and the rocks are a refuge for the rock hyraxes. 
19 He appointed the moon for seasons, the sun knows its going down. 
20 You bring darkness, and it is night. And all the beasts of the forest move at that time. 
21 The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God. 
22 And when the sun rises, they withdraw and lie down in their dens. 
23 A man goes out to his work, and he labors until the evening.
24 Your works are manifold, O Yahweh. You have made them all in your wisdom, and the earth is full of your riches. 
25 Behold the great and wide sea. Countless creatures move there, both small and great beasts. 
26 It is the way of the ships, and also of the leviathan which you formed to play there. 
27 All these creatures wait for you, so that you may give them food in due season. 
28 And you give it to them, and they gather it. You open your hand, and they are satisfied with good things. 
29 And they are troubled when you hide your face. When you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. 
30 All living things become alive through your spirit the breath-giver that you send, and thus you renew the face of the earth. 
31 Glory to Yahweh forever. Let Yahweh rejoice in his works. 
32 He looks on the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke. 
33 I will praise Yahweh all my life. I will sing praises to my God as long as I live. 
34 May my words be pleasing to him. I will rejoice in Yahweh. 
35 Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. My soul blesses Yahweh. Praise Yahweh.
