1 A psalm of David. Defend me against my adversaries, O Yahweh. Fight yourself against those who fight against me. 
2 Take up the shield and the buckler, and stand up to help me with it. 
3 Take also the spear and the javelin to fight against my persecutors. Say to my soul: I am your salvation. 
4 Let those who seek my life be covered with shame. Let them turn back and be confused, all those who plan my destruction. 
5 Let them be like chaff carried away by the wind, and let the angel of Yahweh chase them. 
6 Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of Yahweh chase them. 
7 For they have dug a pit for my soul, without cause. And they have hid the pit to make it a trap, without cause. 
8 Let destruction come on them suddenly. Let them be caught in the trap that they have set in secret, let them be destroyed by their own wicked plans. 
9 And then my soul will rejoice in Yahweh, and will be glad in his salvation. 
10 All my bones will say: Who is like you, O Yahweh. You protect the powerless from the one who is too strong for him, and also the poor and needy from the one who plunders them. 
11 False witnesses have arisen, and they question me of things that I do not know. 
12 They reward me evil for the good that I have done, they trouble my soul. 
13 As for me, I did put on sackcloth when they were sick. I humbled my soul with fasting, and I prayed with my head bowed in my bosom. 
14 I behaved myself as if it had been for my friend or for my brother. I bowed down with sorrow, as one who laments his mother. 
15 Nevertheless they gather together and rejoice when I stumble. The abjects gather without my knowledge to insult me, they tear me without ceasing. 
16 With nasty mockeries, they gnash their teeth against me. 
17 Lord, how long will you see it. Protect my soul from their snares, my life from the lions.
18 I will praise you in the great assembly; I will praise you among many people. 
19 Let not those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me. Let not those who hate me without a cause insult me ​​with their eyes. 
20 For they speak not peace, but they plan deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land. 
21 And they opened their mouths against me by saying: Aha, aha, our eyes have seen. 
22 You have seen it, O Yahweh. Do not be silent, do not be far from me, O Lord. 
23 Arise to execute my judgment, to make known your decision on my cause, my God and my Lord. 
24 Judge me according to your righteousness, O Yahweh my God. Let them not rejoice continually in my sufferings. 
25 Let them not say in their hearts, This is what we wanted. Let them not say, We have devoured him. 
26 Let them be ashamed and be confused, all those who rejoice at my suffering. Let them be clothed with shame and confusion, all those who magnify themselves against me. 
27 And concerning those who recognize my innocence and are saddened by my sufferings, give them the opportunity to rejoice continuously by saying: Let Yahweh be magnified, for he desires that his servants triumph. 
28 And my tongue will speak of your righteousness. It will praise you every day.
