1 A psalm of David. You probe me and know me, O Yahweh. 
2 You know when I sit down and when I get up. You understand the intentions of my thoughts while I am conceiving them. 
3 You know why I do what I am doing, you understand all my ways. 
4 For you know exactly what I will say, O Yahweh, when the word is not yet on my tongue. 
5 You surround me on all sides. You are behind me, and in front of me, and you lay your hand on me. 
6 Such a wonderful knowledge is too great for me to understand fully. It is so high that I cannot grasp it. 
7 Where can I go to escape from your spirit. Where can I flee to escape from your presence. 
8 If I ascend to heaven, then you will be there. If I go down to the grave, then I will find you there. 
9 If I take the wings of the morning and follow the way of the sun, in order to dwell far beyond the sea. 
10 Then it is your hand that will be leading me there, and your right hand will hold me. 
11 If I say: Let darkness cover me and let night be the only light around me. 
12 Then behold, even darkness cannot hide anything from you. For the night shines as the day in your eyes. For the differences between darkness and light do not change your way of perceiving things. 
13 You have formed my inward parts, and you have united all the components of my body in my mother's womb. 
14 I praise you that I am such a wonderful creature. Your works are wonderful, and my soul knows it well. 
15 My bones were not hidden from you when I was made in the secret, when I was woven together in the womb. 
16 Your eyes did see me when I was formless. And all the things that have been formed gradually were already written in your book, and everything was written before any of these things existed. 
17 Your thoughts are inscrutable, O God, and their whole number is great. 
18 If I should count them, then they will be more numerous than all the grains of sand. Now when I awake, I am still with you. 
19 Surely you will destroy the wicked, O God. Therefore I say: Depart from me, you the men of bloodguiltiness [who seek the destruction of others without publicly acceptable justification]. 
20 For they speak wickedly against you. They use your name in vain, those who are your enemies. [They use your word to deceive without having publicly acceptable justifications in their hearts] 
21 O Yahweh, should I not hate those who hate you. Should I not despise those who rise up against you. 
22 I hate them with a perfect hatred, they are my enemies. 
23 Probe me, O God, and know my heart. Test me, and know my thoughts. 
24 See if there is any wicked way in me, and teach me in order to lead me in the way that lasts forever.
