1 A psalm of the sons of Korah. Listen to this, you all the peoples. Give ear, you all the inhabitants of the world. 
2 Young and old, rich and poor. 
3 My mouth will speak wisdom, the thoughts of my heart will give you understanding. 
4 I bend my ear to a parable, I begin my speech by the sound of the harp. 
5 Why should I fear in the days of trouble, when the iniquity of my heels will surround me. [There is no one who does not sin, and I have sinned before the day when I have clung to my God] 
6 They trust their goods, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches.
7 But none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for his brother. 
8 The redemption of their souls is costly, and will never happen.  
9 They will not always live, they will not avoid the sight of the pit. For they will see it.
10 The wise men die. But the fool and the stupid also perish, and leave their riches to others. 
11 They think that their houses will continue forever, and their dwelling places from generation to generation. And they give their own names to their lands. 
12 But the honor that a man gives himself does not last forever. He is like the beasts that perish. 
13 This is the way of their foolishness, and those who follow them have pleasure in their speeches. Pause. 
14 They are appointed for Sheol as sheep. Death will devour them, and the righteous will have dominion over them in the morning. For their beauty will be consumed in their houses [legacies] while they are in the grave. 
15 But God will save my soul from the power of the grave. For he will receive me. Pause. 
16 Do not be fear when someone is made rich, or when the glory of his house is increased. 
17 For he will not carry anything away when he dies. His wealth will not descend after him to stay forever at his side. 
18 He blessed his own soul while he lived. And men generally praise those who give themselves importance for their apparent success. 
19 Nevertheless he will go to stay with his fathers [who are the people who preceded him and who were models for him]. They will never see the light. 
20 The man who is in honor and who has no understanding is like the beasts that perish.
