1 A psalm of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech [Achish] by pretending to be mad and was sent away by Achish. I will bless Yahweh at all times, his praise will be in my mouth continuously. 
2 My soul will boast in Yahweh. The powerless will hear of it and be glad. 
3 Praise Yahweh with me. Let us honor his name together. 
4 I sought Yahweh, and he answered me. He set me free from all my fears. 
5 The one who looks toward him and run to him will be comforted, and will not be covered with shame. 
6 When the powerless man cries, Yahweh hears and assist him in all his troubles. 
7 For the angel of Yahweh encamps around those who fear him in order to provide them with an adequate assistance. 
8 Taste and see that Yahweh is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. 
9 Fear Yahweh, you his saints. For those who fear him lack nothing [of what is necessary for their salvation]. 
10 The young lions can be needy and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh will not lack any good thing. [They will know how to recognize what is useful for them.] 
11 Children, come and listen to me. For I will teach you the fear of Yahweh. 
12 Who is the man who desires life. Who is the one who would like to have many days to see the triumph of good. 
13 Keep your tongue from evil. Keep your lips from speaking cunningly without having publicly acceptable justifications in your heart. 
14 Depart from evil and do good, seek and pursue peace. 
15 The eyes of Yahweh are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry. 
16 And Yahweh sets his face against the wicked, to cut off their remembrance from the earth. 
17 When the righteous cry, Yahweh hears and provides them with an adequate assistance in all their troubles. 
18 Yahweh is close to those who have broken hearts, and saves those who have contrite spirits. 
19 The troubles of the righteous are great, but Yahweh will always save him. [He will have a useful legacy among the living.] 
20 He keeps all his bones, not one of them is broken. 
21 But the wicked will be killed by his malice, and all those who hate the righteous will perish. 
22 Yahweh redeems the souls of his servants, and none of those who take refuge in him will perish.
