1 A psalm of Asaph. Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. 
2 As for me, my feet were almost gone and my steps were about to slip. 
3 For I envied fools, when I saw the prosperity of some wicked.
4 Nothing seems to torment them until their death, and their strength is firm. 
5 They have no share in human suffering, they are not plagued like other men. 
6 Therefore pride is their collar, and violence covers them as a garment.
7 Their possessions give them satisfaction, they do not restrain the lusts of their hearts.
8 They mock and speak maliciously concerning oppression. They speak presumptuously. 
9 They lift up their mouth to the sky, and their tongue walks through the earth.
10 They swallow water abundantly [namely they do not care about the troubles that they may cause to the innocents], and their achievements seduce many ignorant people. 
11 And they say: How can God know. How can the Most High know. [Does God exist. And if he exists then why will he not forgive this evil deed that I want to commit]
12 This is how the wicked think, and some of them are always happy and increase their riches. 
13 Will it be in vain that I have purified my heart, and have washed my hands in innocence. 
14 For I have been plagued daily, and smitten every morning. 
15 If I say, I will speak like them. Then behold, it would be a betrayal towards the kind of your children. 
16 When I considered these things to enlighten myself, it was too difficult for me. 
17 Then I went to the temple of God, and something made me understand the final fate of the wicked. 
18 Surely you have placed them in slippery places, and you have planned to cast them into desolation. 
19 In an instant they are destroyed. They are taken away, annihilated by a sudden end. 
20 As a dream from which one awakens, O Lord, so you will rise up against them to make their images contemptible. 
21 When my heart was embittered, and I felt pierced in my waist. 
22 I was stupid and ignorant. I was like a beast in your eyes.
23 Nevertheless I am always with you. You have held my right hand. 
24 You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me into your glory. 
25 Who else do I have in heaven except you. And on earth I take pleasure in nothing but you. 
26 My flesh and my heart may fail, but God will be the hope of my heart and my portion forever. 
27 For lo, those who have not clung to you will perish. You will punish all those who play the whore toward you [by the fact of going to serve other gods with all their heart]. 
28 As for me, it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord Yahweh, so that I may declare all your works.
