1 A psalm of David. I lift up my soul to you, O Yahweh. 
2 My God, it is in you that I have put my trust. Therefore you will not allow me to be continually covered with shame, you will not let my enemies triumph over me. 
3 For none of those who hope in you will be continually covered with shame, and disappointment will come only to those who try to mislead some others without having publicly acceptable justifications in their hearts. 
4 Show me your ways, O Yahweh. Teach me your paths. 
5 Lead me in your truth, and instruct me. For you are the God of my salvation, you are my hope forever. 
6 Remember, O Yahweh, your tender mercies and your lovingkindness. For they are everlasting. 
7 Do not remember the sins of my youth, nor my rebellions. But remember me according to your kindness, for the sake of your mercy, O Yahweh. 
8 Yahweh is good and fair. Therefore he will instruct sinners in the way. 
9 He will lead the powerless in righteousness, and teach the humble his way. 
10 All the paths of Yahweh are mercy and truth for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. 
11 O Yahweh, forgive the great iniquity that I have done. Do it for the sake of your name. 
12 Who is the man who fears Yahweh. Yahweh will instruct him on how to behave. 
13 His soul will dwell at ease, and his seed will inherit the land. 
14 The secrets of Yahweh are revealed to those who fear him, he will make them understand his covenant. 
15 My eyes are constantly turned toward Yahweh. For he will pluck my feet out of the snares. 
16 Turn your face toward me and have mercy on me. For I am desolate and powerless. 
17 The sorrows of my heart have increased, save me from my troubles. 
18 Look at my affliction and my pain, and forgive all my sins.
19 Consider my enemies, because they are many and they hate me with a cruel hatred. 
20 Rescue me and keep my soul. Do not allow me to be continuously covered with shame, because I seek refuge in you.
21 Let my uprightness and fairness preserve me. For you are my hope. 
22 Save Israel from all his troubles, O God.
