1 Praise Yahweh. Praise Yahweh because he is good, for his mercy endures forever. 
2 Who can tell all the mighty acts of Yahweh. Who can declare all his praise. 
3 Blessed are those who keep the testimony, to act righteously at all times. 
4 Think about me when you show kindness to your people, O Yahweh. Visit me with your salvation. 
5 So that I may see the bliss of your chosen ones, and rejoice in the joy of your people, and glory in your inheritance. 
6 We have sinned like our fathers. We have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. 
7 Our ancestors did not learn from the wonders that you performed in Egypt. They forgot your goodness at the red sea, and rebelled against you. 
8 For he freed them for his name's sake [in order to perform the promises that he made to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob], and to make known his power. 
9 He rebuked the red sea, and it dried up. Then he led them through the depths, as through a wilderness. 
10 He freed them from the hand of the one who hated them, he redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
11 And the waters covered their oppressors, and not one of them was left. 
12 Then his people believed his words, and sang praises to him. 
13 But they quickly forgot his works, they did not wait for his counsel. 
14 For they were seized with lust in the wilderness, and they tested God in the wilderness. 
15 Then he gave them their desire, but he also caused their bodies to decay. 
16 And they also envied Moses in the camp, and Aaron the holy one of Yahweh [namely the one whom Yahweh has chosen to serve as high priest]. 
17 Therefore the earth opened and engulfed Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 
18 And a fire was kindled in the assembly of the children of Jacob, and its flame burned up the wicked. 
19 And they had made a calf in Horeb, and had worshiped that molten image.
20 Thus they had exchanged [Yahweh] their glory for the likeness of an ox that eats grass. 
21 They had forgotten God their savior who had done great things in Egypt. 
22 The one who had done wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things at the red sea. 
23 Therefore he intended to destroy them. But Moses his chosen stood before him in the gap in order to turn away his wrath, to beseech God not to destroy all the transgressors. 
24 And they also despised the pleasant land, they did not believe the word of Yahweh [who had promised that they would be strong enough to take it]. 
25 They murmured in their tents, and did not obey the voice of Yahweh. 
26 Therefore he lifted up his hand, and he swore to destroy them in the wilderness.
27 And that he would overthrow their seed among the nations, and scatter them in the countries. 
28 And they also joined themselves to Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices offered to the dead. [They ate it to worship with the people who made these offerings.] 
29 Thus they provoked Yahweh to anger with their action, and a plague arose among them. 
30 Then Phinehas stood up and executed judgment, and the plague was stopped.
31 And Yahweh considered this action of Phinehas to be a righteous act, and remembered it [when he looked on his descendants] in all generations forever. 
32 They also provoked Yahweh to anger when they were at the waters of Meribah, and Moses was punished because of them. [They were the cause of the event in which Moses transgressed.] 
33 For they put bitterness in the spirit of Moses through their incessant solicitations, and therefore he spoke rashly with his lips [and he acted without restraint]. 
34 Afterward they did not destroy some of the peoples whom Yahweh had commanded them to destroy [in the promise land]. 
35 And they mingled with the nations, and learned their works. 
36 And they served the idols of those peoples. And thus those peoples had become a snare to them. 
37 And the children of Israel offered their sons and their daughters to false gods. 
38 And they shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and their daughters whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and thus the land was defiled with the wilful transgressions of murders. 
39 So they defiled themselves with their works, and played the whore in their doings. [They prostituted their souls by serving false gods.] 
40 Therefore the anger of Yahweh was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his inheritance. 
41 And he gave them into the hand of the nations, and thus those who hated them ruled over them. 
42 So their enemies oppressed them, and they were humbled under their hand. 
43 And Yahweh freed them many times, but they were rebellious in their counsels and returned to their worthless behaviors. And they were humbled because of their iniquity. 
44 But whenever they called on him in their great distress, he heard their supplications. 
45 For he remembered his covenant with their fathers, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. 
46 And he also caused their oppressors, those who took them captive, to pity them. 
47 Save us, O Yahweh our God, and gather us from among the nations. And thus they will know your holy name [namely they will be impressed by your power], and will joyfully praise you. 
48 Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel, forever and ever. And let all the people say: So be it, praise Yahweh.
