1 A psalm of David. I will praise Yahweh with my whole heart, I will speak of all your wondrous works. 
2 I will make you my joy and my pleasure. I will sing praises to your name, O you the Most High. 
3 My enemies will turned back because of you, they will stumble and perish before you.
4 You will defend my right and my cause, for you sit on the throne and you are the righteous judge. 
5 You have rebuked the nations, and you have destroyed the wicked. You have erased their name [their legacy] forever and ever. 
6 Your enemies have come to a perpetual end. You have overthrown their cities, the memory of anything good about them have perished with them. 
7 For Yahweh reigns forever. Hee has set up his throne for judgment. 
8 He judges the world with righteousness, he judges the peoples with equity. 
9 Yahweh is a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. 
10 Those who know your name [your identity] will trust in you. For you will not reject those who seek you, O Yahweh. 
11 Sing praises to Yahweh who dwells in Zion [where I have set up a tent to house the ark of his covenant]. Declare his deeds among the peoples. 
12 He avenges blood and remembers the powerless. He does not forget their cries. 
13 Have mercy on me, O Yahweh. Consider the troubles that I suffer from those who hate me, save me from the gates of death. 
14 And I will declare all your praises at the gates of the daughter of Zion, and rejoice in your salvation. 
15 The idolaters have fallen into the pit that they have made, their foot has been caught in their own trap. 
16 Yahweh is known by the execution of judgment, the wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Pause.  
17 The wicked will go to hell, with all the nations [their social organizations] that forget God. 
18 For the powerless will not be forgotten forever, the hope of the afflicted will not perish forever. 
19 Arise, O Yahweh. Let not man prevail, judge all the wicked.
20 Put them in fear, O Yahweh. Let the wicked know that they are only men. Pause.
