1 A psalm of David. I have put my trust in you, O Yahweh. Let me not be covered with shame continually. Save me because of your righteousness. 
2 Turn your ear to me, and hasten to help me. For you are the strong rock, the house of defence in which I find my salvation. 
3 For you are my rock and my fortress. Guide me and instruct me, for the sake of your name. 
4 Take me out of the snare that they have secretly set for me. For you are my strength. 
5 I have submitted my spirit to your will [I have not turned away from your commandments]. Thus you have redeemed me, O Yahweh the God of truth. 
6 I hate those who cling to vanities [useless behaviors]. For I trust in Yahweh. 
7 I will rejoice in your mercy and be glad. For you have seen my affliction, you have known the anguish of my soul in adversities. 
8 And you have not given me into the hand of the enemy, but you have freed me from their traps. 
9 You have had mercy on me, O Yahweh. For I was in distress. My eyes were consumed with grief, as well as my soul and my belly. 
10 For my life was been spent in torment, and my years in sighing. My strength was failing because of my pain, and my bones were consumed. 
11 All my enemies despised me, and also more particularly my neighbors. I was a terror to my friends, and they fled from me when they saw me outside. 
12 I was forgotten in thoughts like a dead man, and I was like a broken vessel. 
13 For I had heard the slander of many, and fear was on all sides. When they had taken counsel together against me, they had planned to take away my life. 
14 But I trusted in you, O Yahweh. I said: You are my God. 
15 My destiny is in your hand. Save me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me. 
16 Cause your face to shine on your servant. Save me because of your lovingkindness. 
17 Let me not be covered with shame continually, O Yahweh. For I call on you. Let the wicked be covered with shame and silenced in the grave. 
18 Let the deceptive lips be silenced, those who speak in their hearts against the righteous with pride and contempt and cruelty. 
19 Your goodness is great. You have stored it for those who fear you, and you perform it in the sight of the sons of men for those who trust in you. 
20 You protect them in the shelter of your presence from the pride of man. You protect them in your tent from the strife of tongues. 
21 Blessed be Yahweh. For he has shown his marvellous lovingkindness toward me, when I was in a city surrounded by enemies. 
22 I thought in my haste, I am driven out of your sight. But you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to you. 
23 Love Yahweh, you all his saints [that is to say anyone who obeys him]. For Yahweh preserves the faithful, but he punishes the proud severely. 
24 Be strong and let your hearts be strengthened, you all who hope in Yahweh.
