1 A song of Asaph [prophetic words, the thoughts of a person who is not evil in his intentions but who has not understood the identity of God]. Why should you reject us for so long, O God. Why are you angry with the sheep of your pasture. 
2 Remember your congregation, which you have acquired of old. It is the rod of your inheritance, which you have redeemed. And remember mount Zion, where you have come to dwell. 
3 Turn your steps toward the everlasting desolations, toward all the iniquities that the enemy has committed in the sanctuary. 
4 Your adversaries have roared in the midst of your congregation, they have set up their banners for signs. 
5 They looked like men lifting axes against thick trees. 
6 They rushed to break down all the carved work of the place with axes and hammers. 
7 They have set fire to your sanctuary. They have defiled the dwelling place of your name and have razed it to the ground. 
8 They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them all together. They have burned all the synagogues of God in the land. 
9 We no longer see our signs [by which we usually acknowledged that you have given a prophecy for your servants]. There is no more prophet, and there is no one among us who knows how long this will last. 
10 How long will the oppressor insult, O God. Will the enemy continuously despise your name. 
11 Why do you withdraw your hand, your right hand. Take it out of your bosom and destroy them. 
12 God is my king since always, he who works salvation among all the inhabitants of the earth. 
13 You had divided the sea by your power. You had broken the heads of the dragons in the waters. 
14 You have broken the heads of leviathan in pieces, you have given it for food to the people in the wilderness. 
15 You have caused fountain and river to gush forth. You have dried up mighty rivers. 
16 The day is yours, and the night is yours. You have prepared the light and the sun. 
17 You have set all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter. 
18 Remember that the enemy has insulted you, O Yahweh, and that a foolish people has blasphemed your name. 
19 Do not give the soul of your turtledove to the beasts [namely the wicked]. Do not forget the congregation of your powerless forever. 
20 Regard your covenant. For the dark places of the earth are full of the dens of cruel persons. 
21 Let not the oppressed be continuously ashamed. Let the powerless and needy praise your name. 
22 Arise and maintain your own cause, O God. Remember how the foolish man insults you daily. 
23 Do not forget the voice of your enemies. The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.
