1 A psalm of Solomon. Give your judgments to the king, O God, and your righteousness to the son of the king. 
2 He will judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with equity. 
3 And there will be peace in the whole land, even on the mountains and on the hills, because of the righteousness. 
4 He will judge the poor of the people, he will save the children of the needy, and he will subdue the oppressor. 
5 They will fear you as long as the sun and the moon endures, from generation to generation. 
6 He will come down like the rain on the mowed grass, like the showers that water the land. 
7 In his days the righteous will flourish, and great peace will be as long as the moon endures. 
8 He will have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. 
9 The inhabitants of the wilderness will bow before him, and his enemies will lick the dust. 
10 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles will give tribute, and the kings of Sheba and Seba will offer gifts. 
11 Yes, all kings will fall down before him and all nations will serve him. 
12 For he will assist the powerless when he cries, and the needy who has no helper. 
13 He will be merciful to the powerless and needy, and will save the souls of the needy. 
14 He will redeem their soul from unjustifiable deceit and violence, and their blood will be precious in his sight. 
15 He will live, and they will give him of the gold of Sheba. They will pray for him continually, and will bless him every day. 
16 And when a handful of wheat will be sown in the land, even in the top of the mountains, then its fruit will wave like the trees of Lebanon. The people of the city will flourish like the grass of the earth. 
17 His name will endure forever. His name will be remember as long as the sun endures. Men will be blessed through him, and all nations will blessed him. 
18 Blessed be Yahweh God, the God of Israel who is the only one to perform wondrous things. 
19 And blessed be his glorious name forever. Let the whole earth be filled with his glory. So be it, so be it. 
20 Here end the prayers of David the son of Jesse.
