1 A psalm of David, words designed to be valid for all possible life situations and to give wisdom. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, for his sin is covered. 
2 Blessed is the person whose iniquity is forgiven by Yahweh. The spirit of such a person is not perverse [that is to say, the mind constantly feels the desire to be able to justify itself either to other people in the situations that would require it, or sometimes only to his God because of particular circumstances and background]. 
3 As long as I did not acknowledge my transgression by asking forgiveness from those directly affected, my bones were wasting away from within and I was groaning every day [from the time when you started to get impatient, from day to night you will have killed me]. 
4 For your hand was heavy on me day and night, and I was becoming like a dry wilderness during the summer. Pause. 
5 Then I have acknowledged my sin to you, I have not hidden my iniquity. For I said, 'I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh'. Therefore you have forgiven my sin [You have only given a suitable punishment, and you have not erased my name from under the heaven since you have allowed me to possess a useful legacy in the world of the living]. Pause. [In the law given by Moses, the guilty person must do an action in favor of the unjustifiably offended persons and in the presence of a priest namely a descendant of Aaron. For the priests and all the other members of the tribe of Levi were chosen by Yahweh to be the intermediaries between God and men among the children of Jacob. However in the particular case of the sin of David, Nathan the intermediary was perhaps not a Levite but he was at least a recognized prophet, and after the coming of Jesus Christ there is no longer a physically living intermediary between God and men.] 
6 Let any godly man confess his sins while there is still time to find you, when you establish the means to indicate to him that it is the way to go. Surely destruction will not reach him, even during the floods of great waters. [You will grant him an inheritance that even the floods will not destroy, for it will be preserved possibly anonymously whenever you execute your judgments.]
7 You are my secret refuge [O Yahweh]. You preserve me during misfortunes, you surround me with your joy. Pause. 
8 And you say to the one who has repented: I will instruct you and show you the way that you have to follow. I will guide you with my eyes [while you cling to my spirit]. 
9 Now therefore, do not be like a horse or a mule who do not want to obey. His mouth must be held with the bit and the bridle, lest he become uncontrollable. 
10 Many sorrows await the wicked, but the one who trusts in Yahweh is surrounded by his grace. 
11 Be glad, you the righteous. Be comforted and rejoice in Yahweh, all of you who are upright in heart.
