1 A psalm of Asaph. Yahweh the God of gods has spoken, and has called the earth from the rising of the sun to its going down.
2 Out of Zion, which is the perfection of beauty, God is shining. 
3 Our God comes and does not keep silent. In front of him is a devouring fire, and around him is a violent storm. 
4 He tells the sky and the earth to be witnesses while he judges his people. 
5 Gather my saints together to me, those who made with me a covenant that include the sacrifices [the obligatory part of the burnt offerings which concern the days of each month and each year that are designated by the law of Moses to be particular festivals, and the associated meal offerings, and the fat of peace offerings]. 
6 And the heavens will declare the righteousness of God, for he himself is the judge. Pause. 
7 Listen, O my people, and I will speak. Hear, O Israel, and I will testify against you. I am God, your God. 
8 It is not because of your sacrifices that I reprove you. Your burnt offerings are continuously before me. 
9 I will not take a bullock from your house, or a goat from your sheepfolds. 
10 For all the beasts of the forest are already mine, and all the beasts on the thousands of mountains. 
11 The wild beasts of the fields belong to me, and I know all the birds of the mountains. 
12 If I were hungry, then I would not tell you. For the world is mine, and everything in it. 
13 Do I eat the flesh of bulls. Do I drink the blood of goats.
14 Offer deeds of grace [namely the purification of the intentions of the heart] to God, and fulfill the vows that you decide to make to the Most High. 
15 And invoke me on the day of trouble. And I will save you [by providing you with an adequate assistance], and you will glorify me. 
16 But God says to the wicked: You list my ordinances, and you have the words of my covenant in your mouth. 
17 You who hate the instruction, since you have thrown the understanding my words behind you. 
18 If you see a thief [who perverts the meaning of my commandments], then you run to join him. Your portion is with the adulterers. 
19 You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue is skilled to form deceits. 
20 You sit and you speak against your brother, you slander your the son of your mother. 
21 These are the things that you have done, and you have thought that I am similar to you because I was silent. But I will reprove you, and I will list your iniquities before you. 
22 Consider this now, you who forget God. Lest I tear you in pieces, and there be no one to succor you. 
23 The one who offers deeds of grace [namely the purification of the intentions of the heart] glorifies me. I will show the salvation of God to the one who is anxious to make his way acceptable to me.
