1 Blessed is the one whose heart is honest and who walk in the law of Yahweh. 
2 Blessed is the one who keep the testimonies of Yahweh, and who seek Yahweh with his whole heart. 
3 Surely such a person do not commit wickedness, for he walk in the ways of Yahweh. 
4 You have commanded us to do your precepts diligently. 
5 May my heart be steadfast to perform your statutes. 
6 For I will never be ashamed, if I continuously perform all your commandments. 
7 I praise you with a sincere heart whenever I understand a little more the righteousness of your judgments. 
8 Do not forsake me completely, because I want to do your statutes. 
9 How can a young person purify his way. It is by taking care to walk according to your word. 
10 I am looking for you with my whole heart. Do not let me wander away from your commandments. 
11 I have hidden your word in my heart, so as not to sin against you. 
12 Blessed are you, O Yahweh. Teach me your ways. 
13 With my lips I list all the ordinances of your mouth. 
14 I am delighted by following your testimonies, as if I had all the treasures. 
15 I will meditate on your precepts and consider your ways. 
16 I delight in your statutes, I will not forget your word. 
17 Do good to your servant, so that I may live to perform your word. 
18 Open my eyes, so that I may contemplate the wondrous things of your law. 
19 I am a stranger on earth. Do not hide your commandments from me. 
20 My heart is overwhelmed by the desire that carries it continuously towards your ordinances. 
21 You will destroy the proud, these cursed persons who wander far from your commandments. 
22 Remove from me shame and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies. 
23 The rulers may sit down and speak against me, but your servant meditates on your statutes. 
24 Your testimonies are my delight and my counsellors. 
25 My soul is clinging to dust, give me reasons to hope according to your word. 
26 I went to those whom I had unjustifiably offended in order to recognize my transgressions. Now teach me your statutes. 
27 Make me understand the intentions of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. 
28 My soul melts because of sorrow. Raise me according to your word. 
29 Remove from me the way of falseness, and grant me your law graciously. 
30 I have chosen the way of truth, and I have placed your ordinances before me. 
31 I have clung to your testimonies. Do not let me become bewildered, O Yahweh. 
32 I will run toward the ways of your commandments, in order to enlarge my heart. 
33 Teach me the way of your statutes, O Yahweh. And I will keep them until the end of my life. 
34 Give me understanding, so that I may do your law. Yes, I will observe it with my whole heart. 
35 Guide me toward the path of your commandments. For my delight is in them. 
36 Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to the lust of the things of the world. 
37 Turn away my eyes from contemplating worthless things. Cause me to live in your ways.
38 Fulfill for your servant the promises of your word, since I have continuously the fear of you. 
39 Take away from me the reason of rebuke that I dread, for your judgments are full of goodness. 
40 And behold, I desire your commandments. Put your righteousness in the depths of my heart. 
41 Let your mercy cover me, O Yahweh. Give me your salvation according to the promise of your word. 
42 Allow me to have an answer for those who reproach me. For I trust in your word. 
43 Do not remove utterly the word of truth from my mouth. For I hope in your judgments. 
44 I will observe your law continuously, forever and ever. 
45 I will live in freedom, since I seek your precepts. 
46 I will speak of your testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed. 
47 I delight in your commandments, I love them. 
48 I lift up my hands to your commandments, for I love them. I will always meditate on your statutes. 
49 Remember me concerning the promises of your word, for you have given me hope. 
50 It is my comfort in my affliction, for your promise refreshes me. 
51 The arrogant have made fun of me a lot, but I have not turned away from your law.
52 I remember your judgments of old, O Yahweh, and I am comforted. 
53 A strong feeling of disgust has seized me because of the wicked, for they transgress your law. 
54 Your statutes are my songs, in the house of my pilgrimage [in this world]. 
55 I also remember your name in the night, O Yahweh. I cannot stop thinking about your law. 
56 It is thus, because I take pleasure in your precepts. 
57 You are my portion, O Yahweh. For I am determined to keep your word. 
58 I cry to you with my whole heart, and I ask you the following thing: Be merciful to me in accordance with your word. 
59 I consider my ways, and I turn my feet according to the teaching of your testimonies. 
60 I hasten, I do not delay to perform your commandments. 
61 The snares of the wicked surround me, but I do not forget your law. 
62 At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous judgments. 
63 I am a friend of all those who fear you, namely all those who keep your precepts. 
64 The earth is full of your goodness [for it is by your goodness that we come in the world of the living in order to create our own legacy], O Yahweh. Teach me your statutes. 
65 You have acted graciously toward your servant in accordance with your word, O Yahweh. [For you have prepared the heart of your servant to learn to do your will] 
66 Teach me goodness and understanding. For I believe your commandments. 
67 Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I observe your word. 
68 You are good and gracious. Teach me your statutes. 
69 The proud have imagined a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart. 
70 Their heart is as fat as grease, but my delight is in your law. 
71 It is good for me that I have been afflicted. For it has prepared me to love your statutes deeply. 
72 The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands jewels of gold and silver. 
73 Your hands have created me and have fashioned me. Give me understanding, so that I may learn your commandments. 
74 Those who fear you will rejoice when they see me, because I hope in your word. 
75 I know that your judgments are fair, O Yahweh. It is because of your faithfulness that you have humbled me. 
76 Let your lovingkindness be my comfort, in accordance with the promises of your word which is the hope of your servant.
77 Let your tender mercies come on me, so that I may live. For your law is my delight. 
78 Let the arrogant be bewildered. They have oppressed me without a cause, but I meditate on your precepts. 
79 . 
80 Cause my heart to be faithful to your statutes, so that I may not be put to shame. 
81 My soul craves for your salvation, because I hope in your word. 
82 My eyes looks for your promise, and I say: When will you haved comforted me. 
83 For I am like a bottle in the smoke. Nevertheless I do not forget your statutes. 
84 How many are the days of your servant. When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me. 
85 The arrogant have dug pits for me, they do not act according to your law. 
86 All your commandments show your faithfulness. Help me, because they persecute me without a cause. 
87 They had almost destroyed me on the earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts. 
88 Refresh me according to your lovingkindness, so that I may keep the testimony of your mouth. 
89 Forever, O Yahweh. Your word is established in heaven. 
90 Your faithfulness endures from generation to generation. You have founded the earth, and it stands. 
91 It is according to your laws that everything remains today. For all things are subject to you. 
92 If your law had not become my delight, then I would have perished in my affliction. [You would have killed me and you would have destroyed my legacy also] 
93 I will never forget your precepts, because it is through them that you have given me hope. 
94 I am yours, save me. For I am looking for your precepts. 
95 The wicked have waited for me to destroy me. But I am attentive to your testimonies. 
96 I have seen the destruction of many things enticing the eyes, but your commandments endure. 
97 I love your law so much. It is the object of my meditation continually. 
98 Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies. And I always have your commandments before my eyes. 
99 I have more understanding than all my teachers, because your testimonies are the subject of my meditation. 
100 I understand more than old people, because I observe your precepts. 
101 I hold back my foot far from any evil path, in order to perform your word. 
102 I do not deviate from your laws, because you are the one who teaches me. 
103 Your words are so sweet to my palate. Yes, they are sweeter than honey in my mouth. 
104 I have gotten understanding through your precepts. And now I hate all the ways of falseness. 
105 Your word is a lamp at my feet, and a light on my path.
106 I have sworn, and I will not fail in it: I will perform your laws because they are righteous. 
107 I am very afflicted. Refresh me according to your word, O Yahweh. 
108 I beseech you, O Yahweh, to accept the freewill offering of my mouth. And here is this offering: Teach me your judgments. 
109 My life is continuously exposed, but I do not forget your law. 
110 The wicked have laid a trap to make me fall, but I do not turn away from your precepts. 
111 Your testimonies have become my inheritance forever, because they are the joy of my heart. 
112 I have inclined my heart to perform your statutes continuously, until the end of my life. 
113 I hate those who mislead some others without acceptable justifications. For I love your law. 
114 You are my spear and my shield. I hope in your word. 
115 Go away from me, you the wicked. For I want to perform the commandments of my God. 
116 Support me according to the promise of your word, so that I may live. Do not disappoint my hope. 
117 Assist me so that I may be saved. For I will perform your statutes constantly. 
118 You will despise all those who move away from your statutes. For their deceitful plans are worthless. 
119 You will remove all the wicked of the earth as one removes trash. Therefore I love your testimonies. 
120 My flesh trembles because I am afraid of you. I fear your judgments. 
121 I am doing what is right and good [according to your commandments]. Do not put me into the hands of my oppressors.
122 Act for the well-being of your servant. Do not allow the arrogant to oppress me. 
123 My eyes are weakened by the search for your salvation. I seek the promises of your righteous word. 
124 Act toward your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your statutes. 
125 I am your servant. Therefore give me understanding, so that I may know your testimonies. 
126 It is time for Yahweh to act, for they are transgressing your law. 
127 I love your commandments more than gold, more than fine gold. 
128 I know that all your precepts concerning all things are fair, and I hate all false ways. 
129 Your testimonies are wonderful. Therefore my soul performs them. 
130 The study of your word enlightens the soul, and gives understanding to those who are not intelligent. 
131 I open my mouth and sigh, because I am eager to do your commandments. 
132 Turn your face to me, and have mercy on me. For you act thus toward those who love your name. 
133 Establish my footsteps in your word, and do not allow any iniquity to have dominion over me. 
134 Redeem me from the oppression of men, because I perform your precepts. 
135 Make your face shine on your servant, and teach me your statutes. 
136 Streams of water flow from my eyes, because they do not perform your law. 
137 You are righteous, O Yahweh. And your judgments are fair.
138 You have based your testimonies on righteousness and faithfulness. 
139 My zeal consumes me, because my adversaries have forgotten your words. 
140 Your word is tested and proven to be reliable, and your servant loves it. 
141 I am small and despised, but I do not forget your precepts. 
142 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is truth. 
143 Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me, but your commandments are my delight. 
144 The righteousness of your testimonies is forever. Help me understand them so that I may live. 
145 I call on you with my whole heart. Answer me since I perform your statutes, O Yahweh. 
146 I call on you. Save me, for I keep your testimonies. 
147 I come to you before the dawn, and I cry out to you. For I hope in your word. 
148 When I open my eyes at night, it is to meditate on your word. 
149 Hear my voice according to your lovingkindness. Refresh me according to the promises of your commandments, O Yahweh.
150 Those who have malice in their hearts approach me. Their hearts are far from your law. 
151 But you are closer to me, O Yahweh. For all your commandments are truth. 
152 What I have understood from your testimonies of old is that you have designed them to be eternally instructive. 
153 Look at my affliction, and free me. For I have not forgotten your law. 
154 Plead my cause, and redeem me. Refresh me according to your word. 
155 Salvation is far from the wicked, because they do not seek your statutes. 
156 Your tender mercies are great, O Yahweh. Refresh me according to your judgments. 
157 My persecutors and my adversaries are many, but I do not depart from your testimonies. 
158 I look on the transgressors with disgust, because they do not perform your law. 
159 Consider how I love your precepts, O Yahweh. Refresh me according to your mercy. 
160 The foundation of your word is truth, and all the judgments of your righteousness are eternally instructive. 
161 Rulers persecute me without a cause, but my heart trembles only at your words. 
162 I rejoice in your word, as one who has found a great treasure. 
163 I hate falseness and abhor it, because I love your law.
164 I praise you seven times per day, because of your righteous judgments. 
165 Those who love your law have true peace. Nothing will turn them away from you. 
166 I perform your commandments because I trust in your salvation, O Yahweh. 
167 My soul keeps your testimonies, because I love them exceedingly. 
168 I perform your precepts and your testimonies, because all my ways are before you. 
169 Let my cry come before you, O Yahweh. Give me understanding, according to the promise of your word. 
170 Let my supplication come before you. Save me, according to the promise of your word. 
171 My lips declare your praise. For you have taught me your statutes.
172 My tongue speaks of your word, because all your commandments are righteous. 
173 Let your hand help me. For I have chosen your precepts.
174 I long for your salvation, O Yahweh. Your law is my delight. 
175 Let my soul live in order to praise you. Let your law sustain me. 
176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments.
