1 A psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came to him after David had copulated with Bathsheba. Have mercy on me according to your lovingkindness, O God. Blot out my transgressions according to the multitude of your tender mercies. 
2 Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. 
3 For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. 
4 I did what is evil in your sight, and I sinned against you alone. Therefore you are pure in the reproach that you make to me, and you are fair in the judgment that you have pronounced. [Now David says these things in this way because he had been made king over the people by Yahweh, with the approval of the people. This is why he says that he has sinned against Yahweh alone.] 
5 And behold, I was born in iniquity because my mother did conceive me in sin. 
6 But the only thing that you desire from a person is to always have the truth in the inner part. [His intentions must be continuously publicly justifiable in his own eyes, and he may sometimes be the only one to know some of the information that determines his behavior] 
7 Now therefore, set up firmly your wisdom in the bottom of my heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I will be clean. Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
8 Allow me to know some form of happiness and joy in the future. Allow my bones that you have broken [by removing their energy] to have reasons to be comforted. 
9 Turn away your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities. 
10 Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew an honest spirit within me. 
11 Do not cast me away from your presence, do not take away your holy spirit from me. 
12 Restore to me the joy of your salvation, strengthen me by giving me your free spirit. 
13 And then I will teach your ways to those who transgress your law, and sinners will convert to you. 
14 O God, the God of my salvation, save me from bloodguiltiness [which is killing without having publicly acceptable justification in the heart] and my tongue will joyfully sing of your righteousness. 
15 Open my lips, O Lord, and my mouth will declare your praise.
16 If you had desired sacrifices for the particular transgression that I have committed, then I would have offered them to you. But you have no pleasure in burnt offering for the atonement of a transgression. 
17 The sacrifices that please God are a contrite spirit. You will not despise a contrite and broken heart, O God. [For the person who has the courage to acknowledge his trangressions while being in front of those whom he has actually offended breaks his own heart in this way.] 
18 Do good to Zion according to your good pleasure [because it is the place where I have set up the ark of your covenant], build the walls of Jerusalem. 
19 And then you will accept sacrifices of righteousness [since your law commands these things not only for the transgressions that do not directly offend another person, but also to give thank as requested by one of the categories of peace offerings]. You will thus also accept burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings [when the victim is killed but is not separated into different parts before the offering, as Samuel the prophet did once in a situation of trouble], and they will offer bullocks on your altar.
