1 A psalm of David for remembrance, words designed to be valid for all possible life situations. O Yahweh, do not rebuke me in your anger, do not punish me in your fury. 
2 For your arrows have struck me, and your hand his heavy on me. 
3 There is no soundness in my flesh, because of your anger. There is no strength in my bones, because of my sin. 
4 For my iniquities have been laid on my head. And they are too heavy for me, like a heavy burden. 
5 My wounds are festering and putrefied, because of my foolishness. 
6 I am troubled and deeply bowed. I go mourning all the day long. 
7 For a burning devours my waist, and there is no soundness in my flesh. 
8 I am weakened and utterly broken. I roar because of the disquietness of my heart. 
9 Lord, all my desire is before you. For my sighs are not hidden from you. 
10 My heart is troubled. My strength fails me, and the light of my eyes have gone away. 
11 My friends and neighbors stand aloof from my plague, and my kinsmen stand afar off. 
12 Those who seek my life lay their snares. Those who seek to hurt me speak wicked things and plan deceits all the day long. 
13 But I do not want to hear, as if I were a deaf man. And I do not want to open my mouth, as if I were a dumb man. 
14 So I am like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth there is no reproofs. 
15 For I hope in you, O Yahweh. You will answer me, O Lord my God. 
16 And I say: Let them not rejoice over me continuously. They extol themselves against me because my foot has slipped. 
17 For I am ready to fall, and my sorrow is continually before me. 
18 For I have acknowledged my iniquity [according to the procedure indicated by your law], and I am sorry because of my sin. 
19 And nevertheless my enemies are lively and full of strength. Those who hate me wrongfully are many. 
20 They reward me evil for good. They are my adversaries, because I follow goodness. 
21 Do not forsake me, O Yahweh. Do not be far from me, you my God. 
22 Come quickly to my aid, my Lord and my salvation.
