1 A psalm of the sons of Korah, a song of love [on the occasion of a wedding of king Solomon the son of David]. My heart meditates on an excellent thing, therefore I say: My work is for the king. Let my tongue be like the pen of a skilled writer. 
2 You are fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into your lips because God has blessed you forever.
3 Gird your sword on your thigh, that is to say your majesty and your glory, O most mighty. 
4 Yes, your glory. Be victorious, defend truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand be distinguished by marvelous deeds. 
5 Your arrows are sharpened to pierce the hearts of the king's enemies. Therefore the peoples will fall under you. 
6 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of righteousness. 
7 You have loved righteousness and have hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows. 
8 All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, when you leave the ivory palaces where they have made you glad. 
9 Kings' daughters are among your honorable wives. And the main queen is at your right hand, in a vesture of gold from Ophir. 
10 Listen, O daughter [who is the bride]. Incline your ear and consider. Forget your people and your father's house. 
11 And thus the king will have pleasure in your beauty. For he has become your lord, and therefore you must honor him. 
12 And the daughter of Tyre with the rich among the people will bring gifts to seek your favor. 
13 The king's daughter [who is the bride] is all resplendent within the palace. She wears a garment woven with gold. 
14 She is presented to the king, dressed in her embroidered garments and followed by her handmaids the virgins. 
15 They are brought amidst joy and smiles, and they enter the king's palace. 
16 Your children will take the place of your fathers. You will make them princes in all the earth. 
17 I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. The peoples will praise you forever and ever.
