1 A psalm of the sons of Korah. We have heard with our ears, O God. Our fathers have told us of the works that you did in their days, and in the days of old. 
2 You have driven out the nations with your hand in order to plant our fathers. You struck down peoples so that our fathers could settle down. 
3 For they did not possess the land because of their own swords. It was not because of their own strength that they had prevailed. But it was done by your right hand, that is to say by the light of your countenance, because you loved them. 
4 You are my king, O God. Come to the aid of Jacob. 
5 We overthrow our enemies when you are at our side. It is because of your name that we trample with confidence on those who rise up against us. 
6 For I do not trust in my bow, and I know that it is not my sword that saves me.
7 For it is you who saves us from our adversaries, it is you who puts those who hate us to shame [either because of your promises that you have made and that you must fulfill, or because of our obedience to the will of your spirit]. 
8 We will glory in God continuously, we will praise your name forever. Pause. 
9 But now you have rejected us. You did not go with us into battle, and you allowed our enemies to humiliate us. 
10 You have caused us to turn back before the adversary, and those who hate us have plundered us. 
11 You have given us like sheep appointed for food, you have scattered us among the nations. 
12 You have sold your people without asking for compensation, you did not want to increase your wealth by their price. 
13 You have made us a joke to our neighbors, a mockery and a derision to those who are around us. 
14 You have made us a proverb among the nations, and a shaking of the head among the peoples. 
15 My dishonor is before me every day, shame has covered my face. 
16 Because of the voice of those who insult and rebuke me, because of the enemy and the avenger. [For I had transgressed your laws before choosing to cling to you.] 
17 All this has happened to us, therefore we will not forget you again. We will no longer act falsely concerning your covenant. 
18 Our hearts will not turn back, our steps will not departed from your path. 
19 But now you have broken us in this place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death. 
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
