1 A psalm of David. Do not fret because of the wicked, and envy not those who do iniquity. 
2 For they are like grass. They will quickly disappear like green herbs that wither. 
3 Trust in Yahweh and do good. Dwell in the land and rely on his faithfulness [the faithfulness of Yahweh]. 
4 Make of Yahweh your greatest pleasure, and he will give you what your heart desires. 
5 Seek Yahweh in all that you do. Trust in Him, and he will act for you. 
6 He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your judgment as the noonday sun. 
7 Trust in Yahweh and wait patiently for him. Do not fret because of the one who prospers in his ways, or because of the man whose wicked plans are successful.
8 Repel anger and worry, because it can encourage you to do evil. 
9 For the wicked will be cut off, and those who wait for Yahweh will inherit the land. 
10 A little while, and the wicked will be no more. You will look at the place where his wickedness was causing distress to others, and he will not be found. 
11 But the powerless will inherit the land, and will delight in the abundance of peace. 
12 The wicked secretly make plans to hurt the righteous, and gnashes his teeth against the righteous. 
13 But Yahweh laughs at the wicked, for he sees that the wicked will get what they deserve. 
14 The wicked have drawn the sword and bent the bow, in order to bring down the powerless and needy, an to kill those whose ways are honest. 
15 But their sword will enter into their own heart, and their bows will be broken. 
16 A little that a righteous man has, is better than the abundance of many wicked men. 
17 For the arms of the wicked will be broken, and Yahweh will endorses what the righteous is fighting for. 
18 Yahweh knows the daily struggles of honest men, and their inheritance will last forever. 
19 Their inheritances will not be destroyed by perilous times, and they will have enough to eat during the days of famine. 
20 But the wicked will perish. The enemies of Yahweh are will be consumed like the fat of lambs, for they will be consumed and turned into smoke. 
21 The wicked borrows and does not repay. But the righteous is merciful and gives. 
22 For those whom Yahweh blesses will inherit the land, and those whom he curses will be cut off. 
23 Yahweh governs the steps of a righteous man, and delights in his way. 
24 He will not fall even if he stumbles, because Yahweh sustains his hand. 
25 I have been young, and now am old. Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. 
26 But he is always merciful and generous, and his seed is blessed. 
27 Depart from evil and do good, and you will live forever.
28 For Yahweh loves justice. He does not abandon his saints, they are preserved forever. But the seed [legacy] of the wicked will be cut off. 
29 The righteous will inherit the land, and dwell there forever. 
30 The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks about justice. 
31 For the law of his God is in his heart, and his steps will not slip. 
32 The wicked watches the righteous, and seeks to kill him. 
33 But Yahweh will not leave the righteous in the hand of the wicked, nor condemn the righteous when he is judged. 
34 Wait for Yahweh by keeping his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. And you will see when the wicked are cut off. 
35 I have seen the wicked being strong, and spreading himself like a green bay tree. 
36 And it happened that I looked again, and behold, he had gone. I sought him, but he could not be found. 
37 Observe upright man, and consider the one who is blameless. For the peaceful person will have a legacy. 
38 But the transgressors will be destroyed together. The legacy of the wicked will be cut off. 
39 For the salvation of the righteous comes from Yahweh, he is their strength in the times of trouble. 
40 Yahweh helps the righteous and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him.
