1 A psalm of David, when Saul sent to watch the house of David and to kill David. Save me from my enemies, O my God. Defend me from those who rise up against me. 
2 Deliver me out of the evildoers, and save me from bloodthirsty men [who are not only thirsty for justice]. 
3 For lo, they lie in wait to take my life. The mighty have gathered against me, while I am without guilt [I do not think that I have done something wrong] and without sin [I have not transgressed your law]. 
4 They have run and prepared themselves to harm me, although there is no wrongdoing from me. Arise to see and to help me.  
5 You Yahweh the God of armies, the God of Israel, arise to visit all the nations. Do not be merciful to any of those who transgress maliciously. Pause. 
6 They go backwards and forwards in the evening. They howl like dogs, and walk around the city. 
7 Behold they bring evil from their mouth, and swords are on their lips. For they said: Who is there to hear. 
8 But you will laugh at them, O Yahweh. You will scoff at all the nations. 
9 For you are strong, and I will wait for you. God is my defense. 
10 My God helps me because of his mercy. God will make me see my desire on my enemies. 
11 Do not simply kill them, lest my people forget. Scatter them by your power, and cause them to fall, O Lord our shield. 
12 Their mouths sin by the words of their lips: Let them be taken in their own pride, because of the curses and the deceits that are in their speech. 
13 Destroy them in your wrath, destroy them so that they are no more. Let them know that God rules in Jacob and to the ends of the earth. Pause.
14 They go backwards and forwards in the evening. They howl like dogs, and walk around the city. 
15 They wander here and there, looking for food, and they will not be satisfied even if they eat their fill [they are dominated by intense desires]. 
16 As for me, I will sing about your strength. I will praise your mercy in the morning. For you have been my defense and my refuge in the day of my distress. 
17 I will sing about you, O my strength. For God is my defense, and my merciful God.
