1 Nevertheless you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge those persons. For in judging others you condemn yourself, because you who judge do the same things. [That is to say, if you declare them cursed then you are committing a transgression similar to theirs. For the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is to do nothing in a publicly unjustifiable way, and to seek the well-being of others in everything that we do. And every disciple of Jesus must content himself with constantly reminding everyone else of this message of the gospel, and he must concern himself solely with his personal relationship with God. So every disciple of Jesus must distance himself in various ways from any person who refuses to also become a disciple of Jesus, but must not take the initiative to punish or have punished a person who has not offended another living being in a publicly unjustifiable way.] 
2 For we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who commit such things. 
3 And do you think that you will escape the judgment of God, O man, when you judge those who commit such things [that is to say, when you desire that they be punished despite the fact that they have not offended another living being in a publicly unjustifiable way]. For you will be transgressing in a similar way. 
4 Or do you despise the riches of the goodness of God, namely his patience and his long-suffering, not acknowledging that this goodness of God aims to lead the transgressor to repentance. 
5 But because of your hardness and impenitent heart, you accumulate against yourself a treasure of wrath for the day of wrath and of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God. 
6 For God will reward each person according to his deeds. 
7 Reserving eternal life for those who, by perseverance in well-doing, seek honor, and incorruption, and glory. 
8 And reserving wrath and indignation to those who obey unrighteousness, those who are selfish and do not obey the truth. 
9 Tribulation and anguish will be on the soul of every man who does evil, on the Jew first and also on the Greek. [In this context the Jew is simply a person to whom the gospel has already been explained, and the Greek is simply a person to whom the gospel has not yet been explained.]
10 But glory, and honor, and peace, will be for every one who does good, for the Jew first and also on the Greek. [In this context the Jew is simply a person to whom the gospel has already been explained, and the Greek is simply a person to whom the gospel has not yet been explained.] 
11 For God does not have respect for the face of a person. 
12 For all those who have sinned without knowing the law will also perish without being judged by the law, and all those who have sinned while knowing the law will be judged by the law. [It is about the law of Moses which existed before Christ, and it is also about the law of Christ which is taught by the apostles and the disciples of Jesus. And this means that God only considers what each person knows.] 
13 For it is not those who hear the law who are righteous before God, but it is those who put into practice the law of which they have knowledge who will be justified. 
14 Many of those who are not Jews do not have the law [given by Moses]. But when they naturally do many of the things that are commanded by the law [given by Moses], without even knowing the law [given by Moses], then they are their own law. 
15 They show that the spirit of the law [of Moses] is written in their hearts, and the conscience of each one of them bears witness to it when his own thoughts accuse him or defend him. [Now the spirit of the law of Moses is the law of Christ.]
16 This what will be revealed in the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, in accordance with the gospel that I teach. 
17 And now, you who call yourself a Jew and seek glory in the commandments of the law [given by Moses], and proudly claim to be close to God in this way. 
18 You say that you know his will, and you appreciate the differences of things, being instructed by the law. 
19 You boast of being a guide for the blind and a light for those who are in darkness [that is to say, those who do not understand the purpose of life]. 
20 You boast of being a revealer of the foolish and a teacher of the ignorant, because you have in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth. 
21 You who teach others in this way, you do not teach yourself [now that you refuse to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ that has been proclaimed to you]. You who preach against stealing, but you steal [in a different way]. 
22 You say that a man should not commit adultery, but you commit adultery [in a different way]. You proclaim that you abhor idols, but you commit sacrilege [since you refuse to renounce behaviors that the revelation of Jesus Christ exposes as being forms of idolatry]. 
23 You glory in the law [given by Moses a servant of God], but you dishonor God by breaking the law [given by Jesus the Son of God]. 
24 For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, as it is written. [That is to say, by your refusal to submit to the law of Christ, you will mislead non-Jews generation after generation by preventing them from understanding the teaching of the Son of God. For this teaching is deeply linked to the law given by Moses.] 
25 Circumcision is beneficial if you practice all the other aspects of the law [given by Moses]. But if you transgress some other aspects of the law, then your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. [And it is in this way that God was angry with the children of Jacob in each of the generations that lived after Moses, whenever a person committed a willful transgression that was not caused by certain circumstantial constraints.] 
26 Therefore if the uncircumcised person keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision. [Now this is to explain that it is not genealogy that interests God, as is already understandable from the fact that the law given by Moses authorizes voluntary conversions of those who are not children of Jacob.] 
27 If a naturally uncircumcised person fulfills the law [that is to say, if a person who is not Jewish behaves in a way that is pleasing to God according to the commandments that you suppose God has reserved for such a person and which are different from the commandments that you suppose God has reserved for you], then will not such a person condemn you, you who have the letter of the law and circumcision and who are a transgressor of it [that is to say, you who are a descendant of Jacob and who do not observe all the aspects of the law given by Moses]. [Now this is to explain that Jews and non-Jews, who can already interact with each other while they are alive, are not in different places after death. For the scripture has made understood that the Jews are somewhere after death, since Saul the first king of Israel had been able to communicate with the spirit of Samuel who was already dead according to the flesh.] 
28 For a Jew is not someone who is one outwardly, and circumcision is not that which is outward in the flesh. 
29 But a Jew is someone who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, according to the spirit and not according to the letter. The praise of such a person does not come from men, but from God.
