1 I say then, 'Has God rejected his people'. Far from it. For I also am an Israelite, of the offspring of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 
2 God has not rejected his people, whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah, how he complains to God against Israel by saying the following words. 
3 Lord, they have killed your prophets, and have destroyed your altars, and I am left alone, and they seek to take my life. 
4 But what does God answer him. I have reserved for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal. 
5 So then, at this present time there is also a remnant according to the election of grace. 
6 Now if it is by grace, then it is no longer by works, otherwise grace is no longer grace. And if it is by works, then it is no longer grace, otherwise work is no longer work. 
7 What then. What Israel seeks, it has not obtained. But election has obtained it, while the others have been hardened. 
8 As it is written: God has given them a spirit of slumber, eyes that they cannot see and ears that cannot hear, until this day. 
9 And David said, 'Let their table be a trap for them, a snare, a stumbling block, and a recompense. 
10 Let their eyes be darkened so that they may see, and keep their backs continually bowed down. 
11 I say then, 'Have they stumbled to fall'. Far from it. But through their fall, salvation has come to the Gentiles, so that they may be provoked to jealousy. 
12 Now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their diminishing is riches for the Gentiles, how much more will it be like this when they all convert. 
13 I say the following thing to you Gentiles, as an apostle of the Gentiles.
14 I glorify my ministry so that, if possible, I may provoke those who are of my flesh to jealousy and may save some of them. 
15 For if their casting away is the reconciliation of the world, what will their receiving be if not life from the dead. 
16 For if the firstfruits are holy, so is the lump. And if the root is holy, so are the branches. 
17 But if some of the branches have been broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, has been grafted in among them, and made partakers of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree. 
18 Then do not boast against the branches that have been broken off. For if you boast, then know that you do not bear the root, but the root bears you.
19 You will say then: Branches have been broken off so that I may be grafted in. [Your faith in the truthfulness of the message of the gospel of Christ is strengthened by the fact that there are those who cling to the law of Moses and refuse to believe the message of the gospel.]
20 It is true. They have been broken off because of their unbelief, and you stand by your faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear. 
21 For if God did not spare the natural branches, the he will not spare you. 
22 Consider then the goodness and severity of God. Severity toward those who fell, and goodness toward you, if you continue in his goodness. Otherwise, you too will be cut off [because you will not be behaving according to the law of Christ]. 
23 And they also, if they do not continue in their unbelief, then they will be grafted in. For God is able to graft them in again. 
24 For if you have been cut out of the naturally wild olive tree and grafted contrary to your nature into the good olive tree, how much more will they be grafted according to their nature into their own olive tree. 
25 For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers, so that you may not be led astray by your own conceits. It is that blindness has occurred in part of Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in.
26 And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written: The Deliverer will come out of Zion, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob. 
27 And it will be my covenant with them, when I take away their sins. [Now the Deliverer has come, and it is Christ.] 
28 As concerning the gospel, they are enemies because of you. But concerning the election, they are beloved because of their fathers. 
29 For God does not repent of his gifts and calling. [Now it is obvious that God did not repent since Paul himself is one of the Jews and he has already converted. And he previously said that he writes these words in order to be able to convince some among those who have not yet converted.] 
30 For just as you once disobeyed God, and now through their disobedience have obtained mercy. 
31 So they have now disobeyed, so that through the mercy shown to you they also may obtain mercy. 
32 For God has shut up all to disobedience, so that he might have mercy on all. 
33 O depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unfathomable are his judgments, and his ways are unsearchable. 
34 For who has known the mind of the Lord. Or who has been his counselor. 
35 Or who has first given to him, so that he must receive from him in return. 
36 For of him, and through him, and for him, are all things. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen.
