1 I urge you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God. For it is in this way that you can serve God in an appropriate way. 
2 Do not conform to [the desire to please others by appearances as is the case for other people in] this world, but be transformed by continually probing all things through your mind, in order to discern what is good and acceptable to the perfect will of God. 
3 By the grace which has been given me, I say to every one of you not to have too high an opinion of yourself, but to put on modest feelings, according to the measure of faith that God has allotted to each of you. 
4 For just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function. 
5 So we [the believers] who are many, we are one body in Christ, and each of us is connected to the other parts of this same body. 
6 Since we have differing gifts according to the grace given to each of us, let the one who prophesies do it according to the proportion of faith that he has received. 
7 Let the one who is called to the ministry devote himself to his ministry. Let the one who teaches devote himself to his teaching. 
8 Let the one who exhorts devote himself to exhortation. Let the one who gives do it with simplicity. Let the one who rules do it with diligence. Let the one who shows mercy do it with cheerfulness. 
9 Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil, and cling to what is good. 
10 Be full of affection for one another. Abound in brotherly love, and show respect to one another. 
11 Be zealous, not lazy. Be fervent in spirit and serve the Lord. 
12 Rejoice in hope, be patient in affliction, continue in prayer. 
13 Contribute to the needs of the saints, show hospitality. 
14 Bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse. 
15 Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. 
16 Have the same mind toward one another. Do not set your mind on high things, but on low things. Do not be wise in your own eyes. 
17 Repay no one evil for evil. Seek what is good in the sight of all men. 
18 If possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with all. 
19 Do not avenge yourselves, dearly beloved, but leave it to God to reward the evil. For it is written: Vengeance is mine, and I will repay, says the Lord. 
20 But if your enemy is hungry, then give him something to eat. If he is thirsty, then give him something to drink. For in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head. 
21 Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
