1 Brothers, the desire of my heart and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. 
2 For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. 
3 Not knowing the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. 
4 For Christ is the end of the law, for the justification of every one who believes. 
5 For Moses describes the righteousness that comes from the law this way: Whoever does these things will live by them. 
6 But the righteousness that comes from faith speaks on this way: Do not say in your heart, 'Who will ascend into heaven'. For Christ has come down from heaven to bear the sins of all those who will believe in him, whoever they may be. 
7 And do not say, 'Who will descend into the abyss'. For Christ has risen from the death so that all those who belong to him know that they will not be bound by death, whoever they may be. 
8 What does it say then. The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. It is the word of faith which we preach. 
9 For if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, then you will be saved. 
10 For it is by believing from the heart that one achieves justice, and it is by confessing from the mouth that one achieves salvation. 
11 As the scripture says, 'Whoever believes in him will not be put to shame'. 
12 For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, and is rich to all those who call on him. 
13 For whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. 
14 How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed. And how will they believe in him of whom they have not heard. And how will they hear without a preacher. 
15 And how will there be preachers, unless they are sent. As it is written: How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news of the gospel of peace. 
16 But not all have obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says: Lord, who has believed our report. 
17 So faith comes by hearing, and hearing comes by the word of Christ. 
18 But I say, 'Have they not heard'. On the contrary. The voice of the preachers has gone into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. 
19 But I say, 'Has not Israel heard'. Moses first said: I will provoke you to jealousy by those who are not a people, I will anger you by a foolish nation. 
20 And Isaiah is so bold as to say: I was found by those who did not seek me, I manifested myself to those who did not ask for me. 
21 But concerning Israel he says: I have stretched out my hands all day long to a rebellious and contradictory people.
