1 There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, those who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. [That is to say, even their own understanding cannot condemn them if they have truly understood the teaching of Jesus.] 
2 For the law of the Spirit of life taught by Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and death [given by Moses]. 
3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God has done it by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, to condemn sin in the flesh. [That is to say, the more just people could suspect the sufficiency of the holy commandment but could not know how to put it into practice in all life situations, and none of the other commandments included in the law could teach the exact knowledge of the notion of righteousness. That is why Christ came in a flesh similar to ours so that his behavior and words could serve as examples for us. He explained the meaning of the ten commandments by highlighting the fact that God is not interested in what we do but in why we do it, and God raised him from the dead to testify that this teaching is the ultimate purpose of the Law of Moses.] 
4 This was so that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, those who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
5 For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. 
6 And to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. 
7 For the carnal mind is enmity against God, because it is not subject to the [true] law of God, and cannot even do so. 
8 So those who live according to the flesh cannot please God. [Now this statement of Paul and the preceding ones concern those who live when the message of Christ is already taught in the world.] 
9 But you do not live according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Whoever does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Christ. 
10 And if Christ is in you, then the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. 
11 For if the Spirit of the one who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, then the one who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies, by his Spirit who dwells in you. [That is to say, he will give you the same kind of life that he has given to Jesus.] 
12 So then, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh so much so that we must live according to the flesh. 
13 For if you live according to the flesh, then you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, then you will live. 
14 For all those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. 
15 And you have not received a spirit of bondage, to continue to be in fear. But you have received a spirit of adoption, by which we cry: Abba, Father. 
16 The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. 
17 And if we are children, then we are heirs. We are heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer like him so that we may share his glory.
18 And I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed to us. 
19 For the creation eagerly awaits the revealing of the sons of God. 
20 For the creation has been subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. 
21 But it has the hope that it will be set free from the bondage of corruption and will come into the glorious freedom of the sons of God. 
22 For we know that the whole creation has been groaning and has been in the pains of childbirth until now. 
23 And not only so, but we also who have received now the firstfruits of the Spirit, we also groan within ourselves, waiting for our adoption, for the redemption of our body. 
24 For we are saved by hope. Now hope that is seen is no longer hope. For how can a man hope for what he sees. [That is to say, if we could see clearly the representation of what we are hoping for, then it would no longer be hope but lust.] 
25 But if we hope for what we do not see, then we wait for it with patience. 
26 In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what we ought to pray for, and the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings that cannot be uttered. 
27 And he who searches the hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because he intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. 
28 And we know that all things work together for the good of those who love God, of those who are called according to his purpose. 
29 For those he whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, so that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. 
30 And those whom he predestined, he has also called them. And those whom he has called, he has also justified them. And those whom he has justified, he has also glorified them. 
31 What then will we say concerning these things. If God is for us, then who can be against us [and succeed]. 
32 He who has not spared his own Son, but delivered him up for all of us, how will he not also give us all things as has given them to his Son. 
33 Who will bring charges against those who are chosen by God. It is God who justifies. 
34 Who will condemn them. Christ has died, or rather, he was raised from the dead, and he is at the right hand of God, and he intercedes for us. 
35 Who will separate us from the love of Christ. Will it be tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword. 
36 As it is written: For your sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. 
37 Nevertheless, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 
38 For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers. 
39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
