1 Let every soul be subject to the higher authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist have been placed by God. 
2 Therefore whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. 
3 For rulers are not to be feared if we are doing good, but only if we are doing evil. If you want to avoid fearing the authority, then do what is right [that is to say, what is publicly justifiable], and you will have his approval. For the ruler is a minister of God for your good.
4 But if you do what is evil, then be afraid. For he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is a minister of God, an avenger to punish the one who does evil. [Now the sword of an authority is simply the various means that are at his disposal to punish wrongdoers in a publicly justifiable manner.] 
5 Therefore it is necessary to be subject to the higher authorities, not only for fear of punishment, but also for the sake of conscience [that is to say, one cannot have the fear of God if one does not have the fear of the authorities]. 
6 It is also for this reason that you have to pay taxes. For the rulers are the ministers of God, and they must receive a salary for the work that they do. 
7 Give to all men what is due. Give taxes to whom taxes are due, have due regard for the authorities, fear the one who should be feared, and honor the one who should be honored. 
8 Owe no one anything, except to love one another. For he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law. 
9 For the commandments: You will not commit adultery, you will not kill, you will not steal, you will not bear false witness, you will not covet, and any other commandment, are summed up in the following statement: You will love your neighbor as yourself. 
10 Love does not plan evil against one's neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. 
11 And understanding that thing is even more important now that you know what time we are in [that is to say, now that you know that Christ has put an end to the law given by Moses]. It is time to wake up from sleep, for now salvation is nearer to us than when we first believed [that is to say, now that we have believed in Christ, salvation is nearer to us than when we had believed in Moses].
12 The night is far spent, and the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. 
13 Let us walk honestly, as in the day, not in gluttony and drunkenness, not in lust and impulsiveness, not in quarreling and jealousy. 
14 But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts.
