1 Do you not know, brothers, that the law exercises its power over man as long as he lives. For I speak to men who know the law [which was given by Moses to the children of Jacob and which authorizes conversions of foreigners].
2 For a married woman is bound by the law to her husband as long as he is alive. But if the husband dies, then she is released from the part of the law that was binding her to her husband. 
3 Therefore if she becomes the wife of another man during the lifetime of her husband, then she will be called an adulteress. But if the husband dies, then she is freed from that part of the the law and she is not adulterous by becoming the wife of another. 
4 And now, my brothers, you also have been put to death through the body of Christ concerning the law [as Jesus had been put to death by the initiative of the Jewish high priest and other religious leaders], in order to be freed from the law and to be able to belong to another husband, namely Jesus who has been raised from the dead [and who has taught the understanding of the ten commandments and of all the other parts of the law given by Moses to the children of Jacob], so that we may bear fruit for God. [Now the need to try to understand the meaning of the commandments of the law given by Moses arises from the fact that the one described there as God declared that all the families of the earth will be blessed through Abraham the grandfather of Jacob, and that he gives this law to the children of Jacob among whom he will raise up prophets, and that he authorizes the conversions of certain strangers, and that he is the only God of all the earth, and he also said the following thing to Moses: I am alive, and all the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord.] 
5 For when we were in the flesh [that is to say, before the different moments when each of us has died with Christ through having understood and accepted his teaching], the passions of sin caused by the law worked in our members, to bring forth fruit to death. [Now these passions of sin were caused by certain aspects of the law such as the obligation to keep the sabbath day, or the obligation not to mix the inheritances of the different paternal tribes of Israel in the promised land, or the obligation to go to a particular place to make offerings to God, and other obligations. For where there is the obligation to perform a particular ritual, there is the excitement caused by the desire not to alter this particular ritual.] 
6 But now we have been released from the law, having died to that law under which we were held, so that we should serve in newness of the spirit and not in oldness of the letter. [That is to say, Jesus died according to the flesh so that whoever becomes his disciple may also put to death the self that he had before understanding the message of the gospel, and live henceforth only according to the demands of the spirit with the hope of being reunited with Jesus who had been raised from the dead. And this is true for everyone, whether it is a Jew who was under the law given by Moses or a non-Jew who was not under that law.] 
7 What will we say then. Was the law a sin [for the Jew to whom a good explanation of the message of the gospel of Christ has not yet been announced]. Far from it. For it is through the law that I have known sin [that is to say, it is the law given by Moses that has allowed me to understand how to put into practice the commandment of the gospel of Christ]. For I would not have known covetousness, except the law had said: You will not covet. [Now the law given by Moses also explained to me how I must behave when I have publicly unjustifiably offended a person. For this law asks me to go to that person to obtain his forgiveness, and to repay the damage by adding a fifth of the value to it, according to my means and in the presence of a priest who is a descendant of Aaron and who must offer a sacrifice which is eaten. And the law of the gospel of Christ simply abolished the existence of priests who were intermediaries between God and men among the children of Jacob.] 
8 And sin, seizing the opportunity, worked in me through the commandment all kinds of lusts [since I had to constantly think about what I can do to avoid altering the particular rituals that are commanded by law given by Moses]. For without a law [given by God], sin is dead. 
9 Before I knew the law, I was alive. But when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. [That is to say, before I knew the law I had the freedom to take personal initiatives in everything that I could undertake, and I was not haunted by the obligation to have to do certain things in particular. I lived for myself, and not to carry out any particular commandments.] 
10 Thus, the commandment which leads to life was found to lead to death for me. 
11 For sin seized the opportunity, and deceived me by the commandment, and by it killed me. [That is to say, I was not living for myself but I was living for the law, for rituals commanded by law.] 
12 Nevertheless the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous, and good. [That is to say, this is true as long as one has not understood the revelation of Christ, and this remains forever true concerning the ten commandments that God had spoken into the ears of all the people gathered at the foot of mount Sinai. For as for the other commandments given by Moses, some served to explain how to put the ten commandments into practice, and others served to introduce a house of God in response to the transgression of the people who asked Aaron to make a god that they could see with their eyes.] 
13 Has what is good then been the cause of death for me. Far from it. But it is sin, so that it may manifest itself as sin by killing me through what is good, and that, through the commandment sin might become condemnable to the highest degree. [That is to say, it is the commandments of the law and the holy narratives of the behavior of the Jewish people that have allowed us to know the definition of the notion of sin with great precision. It is all this that has allowed us to know exactly how to put the holy commandment of Christ into practice.] 
14 For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am not. I am carnal, sold to sin. 
15 For I do not know what I do. For I do not do what I want, but I do what I hate. [Now these are several aspects of the law given by Moses, such as having to offer sacrificed animals to God alone in quantities that have been specified, offerings that no one eats and which are completely burned.] 
16 But if I do what I do not want [without being in the process of hurting others], then I acknowledge that the law is good. [That is to say, I acknowledge that this law is teaching me not to think only of myself, and to be aware of the existence of God the creator who desires the good of those who love him.] 
17 And now then, it is no longer me who is doing it of my own free will, but it is sin that dwells in me. [That is to say, if another living being made of flesh has not forced me in some way to do something that is not of my own initiative, then it is a form of sin that dwells within me that is causing me to do it.] 
18 What is good, I know, does not dwell in me, that is to say in my flesh. For I have the will, but I do not have the right to do what is good [since I must obey the divine law that I have received]. 
19 For I do not do the good that I want, and I do the evil that I do not want. 
20 And if I do what I do not want, then it is no longer I who do it, but it is the sin that dwells in me. 
21 So I find within myself this law: When I want to do good, evil is attached to me. 
22 For I delight in the law of God [given by Christ] according to the inward man. 
23 But I see in my members another law, which struggles against the law of my understanding, and which makes me captive to the law of sin which is in my members. [Now that law of sin is all the rituals commanded by the law of Moses, in which the quantities and qualities of the things that must be offered to God alone are specified.] 
24 Wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from the body of this death. 
25 Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord [because the universal teaching of the Lord has freed me from the good pedagogy given to me by Moses]. For before receiving and understanding the teaching of the Lord, I had the desire to serve the [true] law of God with my own understanding but there was in my flesh the law of sin. [Now this statement is true for the Jews who are the recipients of this letter from Paul. And as for the Gentiles, some may have had the desire to do what is right but could not know exactly what to do when the law of the Lord Jesus had not yet been taught to them.]
