1 What advantage then did the Jews have. Or what benefit has circumcision offered. [That is to say, if God only considers what each person knows and does not distinguish between communities as I have said, then what is the advantage of those who have received the law given by Moses.] 
2 It is great in every way, especially in the fact that they were entrusted with the oracles of God. 
3 But if some did not believe, will their unbelief nullify the faithfulness of God. [That is to say, in each generation some of the children of Jacob have disobeyed the law given by Moses, but could this fact prevent God from fulfilling the promise of that law namely the blessing that Jacob pronounced shortly before his death concerning his son Judah. And similarly, can those who refuse today to believe in the power of the holy commandment given by Jesus Christ prevent God from fulfilling his promise regarding the triumph of those who choose to persevere in obedience to that holy commandment.] 
4 Never. Indeed, let God be declared true and every [ordinary] man a liar as it is written: So that you may be justified in your words, and may prevail when you are judged. [That is to say, he who does not believe in a God of justice, he who now does not blindly obey the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ, this one cannot be justified in all that he does. The purpose of the scriptures is to make people understand how to put into practice the holy commandments given by Jesus Christ.] 
5 And if our unrighteousness establishes the righteousness of God, then what will we say. Is God unrighteous when he sends forth his anger. I speak thus in the manner of men. [That is to say, if a person acts wickedly and commits an abomination, or if a natural disaster occurs, then should we blame God for allowing such a thing to happen.] 
6 Never. For how should God judge the world. 
7 And if the truth of God emerges in a dazzling way from an event in which my participation has been a willful lie, then why am I still being judged as a sinner. [That is to say, if a person commits a willful evil action and this causes an event to occur that greatly instructs others about the truth of God, or if such an event occurs from an unjustifiable lie of a person, then should such a person expect to be forgiven by God.] 
8 And why should a person not choose to do evil with the aim of allowing something good to happen, as some who slander us claim that we do. The condemnation of such a person is just. [That is to say, if a person willingly does wrong or lies unjustifiably, and if in his heart his intention is to create an instructive event for others, then this intention cannot be sufficient to justify the fact that he has not acted righteously and without deception. And there are some people who accuse us of having this behavior when we proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ.] 
9 What then. Are we Jews more excellent than others. Not at all. For we have already proven that all, both Jews and Gentiles, are under sin. 
10 As it is written: There is none righteous, not even one. 
11 There is none who understands, there is none who seeks God. [That is to say, no one thinks of seeking God in the right way.] 
12 They have all gone astray, they have become together unprofitable. There is none who does good, not even one. 
13 Their throat is an open sepulchre, they use their tongues to deceive. The poison of asps is under their lips. 
14 Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. 
15 Their feet are swift to shed blood. 
16 Destruction and misery are in their paths. 
17 They do not know the way of peace. 
18 The fear of God is not before their eyes. 
19 Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may be brought under the judgment of God. 
20 For no one will be justified in his sight by the practice of the rituals described in the law. For it is through the law that the knowledge of sin comes. [Now the instructive behaviors described in the scriptures did not consist of practicing the rituals of the law given by Moses with the same rigor that Moses practiced those same rituals when he was obeying orders directly received from the angels of God. For the instructive behaviors described in the scriptures are rather found either in the narratives that do not concern the rituals commanded by Moses, or in the reasons why those rituals were not rigorously observed. And concerning the memory of Josiah king of Judah who wanted to conform exactly to what he knew of the rituals of law given by Moses, this cannot but be compared to the memory of Hezekiah king of Judah who wanted to conform exactly to the love of God.] 
21 But now the righteousness of God has been revealed as being independent of the law [given by Moses], and the law and the prophets bear witness to it. 
22 The righteousness of God which is by faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. There is no distinction. 
23 For all have sinned, and are deprived of the glory of God. 
24 And they are justified for free by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. 
25 Whom God has established to make reconciliation through faith in his blood [or more precisely faith in his resurrection].
26 God has thus demonstrated his righteousness after having left unpunished the sins committed previously, in the time of his patience. He has demonstrated his righteousness in the present time, for he is righteous through the fact that he justifies those who have faith in Jesus. 
27 Where then is the boasting. It is excluded. For righteousness is not obtained by the law [received from angels], nor by works, but by the law of faith. 
28 For we proclaim that a person is justified by faith, and not by the practice of the law [given by Moses]. 
29 Or is God the God of the Jews only. Is he not also the God of the Gentiles. Yes, he is the God of the Gentiles also. 
30 For there is one God, who will justify the circumcised by faith, and the uncircumcised by faith. [Now Paul lived when the temple of God has not yet been destroyed, and that is why he expresses himself in this way.] 
31 Do we then destroy the law by faith. Far from it. On the contrary, we confirm the law given by Moses. [That is to say, it is the pedagogy of the law given by Moses that allows us to understand how to put into practice the law of faith given by Jesus Christ. The righteous persons who lived before Moses wanted to do what is good but did not know exactly what to do, and God rewards every righteous person by allowing that person to create an information that will have a historical utility in the transformation of the world. And the law of Moses was given only to certain people who were carrying the personal legacies of some of those who had been righteous before them, and it is the teaching of Jesus Christ that has made known to all the world what one must do to be a righteous person.]
