1 I speak the truth in Christ, I do not lie, and my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. 
2 I have a great heaviness and a continual sorrow in my heart. 
3 For I could wish that I myself were separated from Christ for my brothers.
4 My kinsmen according to the flesh who are Israelites, to whom belong the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the gift of the law, and the service of God, and the promises. 
5 And the patriarchs, and from whom has come Christ according to the flesh, he who is over all, God blessed forever. Amen. 
6 But it is not as if the word of God has failed. For not all those who have come from Israel are Israel. 
7 And despite the fact they are of the offspring of Abraham, they are not all his children. For it is said: It is in Isaac that your seed will be called. 
8 That is to say, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but it is the children of the promise who are regarded as the seed. 
9 For this is the word of the promise: I will come back at this same season, and Sarah will have a son. 
10 And not only this, but concerning also Rebecca who conceived by one, by our father Isaac. 
11 For although the children had not yet born, and had done neither good nor evil, in order that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not by works, but by the will of him who calls, the following thing was said to Rebecca. 
12 The elder will serve the younger. 
13 As it is written: I have loved Jacob, and I have hated Esau. 
14 What will we say then. Is there unrighteousness with God. Far from it. 
15 For he said to Moses: I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. 
16 So then, it is not of the one who wills, nor of the one who runs, but of God who shows mercy. 
17 For the scripture says to Pharaoh: I raised you up for this very purpose, so that I might show my power in you, and so that my name might be proclaimed throughout all the earth. 
18 So he shows mercy to whom he wills, and he hardens whom he wills. 
19 And now you will say to me: Why does he still rebuke. For who is there who resists his will. 
20 But who are you, O man, to argue with God. Will the thing formed say to the one who formed it: Why have you made me in this way. 
21 Does the potter not have power over the clay, to make from the same lump one vessel for honor and another vessel for dishonor. 
22 What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, has endured with much patience the vessels of wrath fitted for destruction. 
23 So that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he has prepared for glory. 
24 So he has called us, not only from among the Jews, but also from among the Gentiles. [That is to say, in the same way that he was angry not only with some Gentiles but also with some Jews.] 
25 As he says in Hosea: I will call my people those who were not my people, and I will call my beloved the one who was not beloved. 
26 And it will happen that, in the place where it was said to them, 'You are not my people', there they will be called children of the living God. 
27 And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: When the number of the sons of Israel will be like the sand of the sea, only a remnant will be saved. [For Isaiah has said: The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, like the bottom of the sea is entirely covered with water.] 
28 For the Lord will fully and quickly carry out on the earth what he has purposed. 
29 And as Isaiah said before: Unless the Lord the God of armies had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom, we would have been like Gomorrah. 
30 What will we say then. The Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness [in their social organization], have attained righteousness, the righteousness that comes from faith. 
31 While Israel [that is to say, those who cling to the law given by Moses to the children of Jacob], who sought the law of righteousness, did not attain it. 
32 Why. Because they have sought it not by faith, but as if it were by works. They have stumbled at the stumbling stone according to the following scripture. 
33 Behold I lay in Zion a stumbling stone, and a rock of offense. Whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.
