1 What will we say then concerning the thing that Abraham our father has obtained according to the flesh. 
2 If Abraham had been justified by the very nature of the works that he was doing [and not by the quality of the justifications that he possessed while he was doing what he was doing], then he would have had reason to boast before men but not before God. [That is to say, it was not because Abraham wanted to build a personal legacy that he had been justified by the God who makes all things happen, but rather the fact that Abraham wanted to be pleasing to a God of justice whose exact identity he did not know. Abraham was unaware of certain things concerning the God of justice as it is written, 'I appeared to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob by the name of Almighty God, but I was not known to them by my name', and it is Jesus of Nazareth who has taught the exact knowledge of the God of justice according to the following thing that he has said, 'I and my Father are one'.] 
3 For what does the scripture say. It is written: Abraham has trusted God, and it is for this reason that God recognized him as a righteous person. 
4 Now when a person does a work, the reward is not given to him as a grace but as a payment of a debt. 
5 But if a person acts solely by the desire to please the one who justifies the ungodly [that is to say, if a person only wants to please the Almighty God of justice who is merciful to all the unrighteous who desire to turn their gaze toward him], then the faith of such a person is recognized as righteousness. 
6 And David uses the following words to declare the blessing of the person whom God recognizes as being righteous without works. 
7 Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, those whose sins are covered. 
8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute his sin. 
9 Is this blessing only for the circumcised, or is it also for the uncircumcised. 
10 For we say that it was because of the faith of Abraham that he was recognized as a righteous person by God. When had his righteousness been acknowledged. Was it after or before his circumcision. He was not yet circumcised [in his flesh], he was uncircumcised. 
11 And he received the sign of circumcision, as a seal of the righteousness which he had attain by his faith while he was uncircumcised, so that he might be the father of all the uncircumcised who believe [in our teaching of the gospel of Jesus], so that they may also attain the righteousness which is by faith. 
12 And the father of the circumcised, those who are not only circumcised [in the flesh] but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had when he was uncircumcised [in the flesh]. 
13 Indeed, it was not through the law [given to Moses] that Abraham was promised that he and his seed would be the heirs of the world, but through the righteousness of faith. 
14 For if the heirs are by the law [given to Moses], then faith is made void and consequently the promise is worthless. [For the promise was made to Abraham because of his faith, at a time when the law had not yet been given, and not all the children of Isaac the son of Abraham have inherited the promise since Esau the twin brother of Jacob had been excluded from it. Now it seems that certain details of the law given by Moses were practices known by certain communities since more ancient times, as the distinction between clean and unclean animals, but these cannot be all the details of this law in which it is written: You will add nothing to the word that I command you, and you will not diminish anything from it. But you will keep the commandments of the Lord your God as I command you.] 
15 Moreover, the law produces anger [when there arise constraints that prevent putting it into practice], and where there is no law there is no transgression. 
16 Therefore righteousness is attained by faith, so that salvation may be by grace, and so that the promise may be sure to all the seed. For the promise is not only for those who are under the law and who behaves wisely, but also for those who are not under the law and who have the faith of Abraham the father of us all. [For the seed of a person is not only formed by those who imitate his behavior among his descendants according to the flesh, but his seed is also formed by those who are not among his descendants according to the flesh and who imitate a part of his behavior.] 
17 As it is written, 'I have made you a father of many nations'. He is our father before the one in whom he believed, namely God who gives life to the dead and who calls things that are not as if they were. 
18 He did not turn away from his trust in God even when there was no other reason to have hope, and therefore he has become a father of many nations according to the following reward that had been announced to him: So will be your seed. 
19 And without weakening in faith, he did not consider that his body was already worn out although he was almost a hundred years old, and that Sarah was no longer able to have children. 
20 He did not doubt the promise of God, he never stopped believing, but he was strengthened in the faith. 
21 Abraham was giving glory to God, having the full conviction that God can accomplish what he himself took the initiative to promise. 
22 Therefore he was recognized as a person who walks in righteousness. 
23 Now it is not because of him alone that it is written that God recognized him as a righteous person. 
24 It is also for us, for we have the possibility to attain righteousness by reading it and believing in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. 
25 Jesus was delivered up for our sins, and was raised from the dead for our justification.
