1 What will we say then. Will we continue in sin so that grace may abound. [Now the temple of God built for the implementation of the commandments of the Jewish law has continued to exist throughout the life of Paul, and he is writing this letter to send it to the Jews and proselytes who live in Rome. So here Paul means that since one who has truly become a disciple of Jesus has truly understood the message of the gospel and has understood that the particular rituals required by the Jewish law are actually a form of sin, then such a person can no longer take the initiative to practice these rituals if there is no external constraint that is forcing him to do so. For the law revealed by Christ only requires to possess within oneself a justification that one knows to be publicly acceptable in everything that one does, whatever one is doing.] 
2 By no means. We who have died to sin, how will we live any longer in it. [That is to say, those of us who have died with regard to sin, this death having occurred when the message of the Lord Jesus Christ made us understand the definition of the notion of righteousness, we know that we cannot hope for the coming of another definition of the notion of righteousness if we begin to sin again.] 
3 Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus, have been baptized into his death. [That is to say, those of us who have received the Holy Spirit have received the testimony of his death according to the flesh and of his resurrection according to the Spirit. For John had said that he himself baptizes with water but Jesus will baptize with the Holy Spirit, and after his death and resurrection from the dead Jesus himself said to the first apostles: John has baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days.] 
4 So we have been buried with him by the baptism into his death [that is to say, we have killed our old selves by the reception of the Holy Spirit], so that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father [who thus gave him a new life], so we also should walk in newness of life. 
5 For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, then we will be also in the likeness of his resurrection. 
6 Knowing that our old selves have been crucified with him [at different times when each of us received a good understanding of his teaching], so that the sinful self of each of us should have no power over his body, so that we should no longer be slaves to sin. 
7 For he who has died is freed from sin. 
8 Now if we have died with Christ [at different times when each of us received a good understanding of his teaching], then we believe that we will also live with him. [That is to say, if we receive the Holy Spirit, and if our heart is predisposed to obey the Holy Spirit because we are part of those who were created to belong to Christ, then we sincerely obey the Holy Spirit and possess the conviction that this obedience will allow us to obtain a divine reward after our death according to the flesh, and we know the nature of this reward because we know the story of Jesus.] 
9 Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more. Death has no longer dominion over him [and he is alive forever]. 
10 For when he had died, he had died to sin once for all. And he was raised from the dead, and lives to God. 
11 So you also, look at yourselves as being dead to sin and alive for God through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
12 Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, do not obey its desires. [Now Paul is building us up, so that those whose hearts are predisposed to belong to Christ may be encouraged by his words.] 
13 Do not give your members to sin by making of them instruments of unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God, as people who have received a new form of life after having killed their former selves, and give your members as instruments of righteousness to God. 
14 And sin will not have dominion over you, since you are not under a law but under grace. [For the Holy Spirit that you have received is a grace that submits only to its own law.] 
15 What then. Can it happen that we are sinning only because we are not under a law but under the grace. Far from it. 
16 Do you not know that by giving yourself up to someone as slaves in order to obey him, you are slaves of the one whom you have the desire to obey, whether of sin which leads to death or of obedience which leads to righteousness. 
17 But thanks be to God that, although you had been slaves of sin, you have obeyed in your hearts to the rule of the doctrine in which you have been instructed. 
18 Being then made free from sin, you have become slaves of righteousness. 
19 I speak after the manner of men because of the weakness of your flesh. Just as you had given your members as slaves to impurity and to iniquity, to commit iniquity, so now give your members as slaves to righteousness to attain holiness. [Now this letter of Paul is to be send to the community of the Jews who live in the city of Rome, and this particular statement is valid not only for non-Jews but also for Jews. For the law of Christ taught by Paul has made it understood that there were in the law given by Moses certain commandments that led to impurity and idolatry, and this is true even if we consider only the ten commandments which contain the obligation to keep the sabbath day.] 
20 For when you were slaves of sin, you were free from righteousness. 
21 What fruit did you bear then. The fruit of which you are now ashamed. For the end of those things is death [that is to say, eternal death]. 
22 But now, having been set free from sin and made slaves of God, your fruit is holiness and the end is everlasting life. 
23 For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
