1 You must welcome those who are weak in faith, and not argue over opinions. 
2 One person thinks that he can eat everything, and another person who is weak eats only vegetables. 
3 Let not the one who eats despise the one who does not eat, and let not the one who does not eat judge the one who eats. For God has received them. 
4 Who are you to judge the servant of another person. Whether he stands or falls should only concern his own master. And he will stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand. 
5 One person considers that one day is different from another day, while another person considers that those days are alike. Let each one have a full conviction in his own mind. 
6 The one who distinguishes between days does so for the Lord, and the one who does not distinguish between days does so for the Lord. And the one who eats eats for the Lord, for he gives thanks to God. And the one who does not eat, does not eat for the Lord, and he gives thanks to God. 
7 For none of us lives for himself, and none of us dies for himself. 
8 For if we live, then we live for the Lord. And if we die, then we die for the Lord. Whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. 
9 For Christ died and lived again, so that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. 
10 But why do you judge your brother. Or why do you despise your brother. For we will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. 
11 For it is written: As I am alive, says the Lord, every knee will bow to me, and every tongue will confess to God. 
12 So then each of us will give account of himself to God. 
13 Let us therefore no longer judge one another [concerning the initiatives of a person who does not harm anyone else]. But judge rather this: Let no one put a stumbling block or an occasion of falling in the way of his brother. 
14 I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself, and that a thing is unclean only to the one who considers it unclean.  
15 But if your brother is grieved concerning food [that you give him knowing that he has chosen not to eat such things or that you eat in his presence knowing that he may misinterpret what you are doing], then you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died. [Now Paul allows the disciples who may have doubts to know that they can eat anything edible, and also to know how to behave in the presence of those who do not yet have this knowledge.]
16 Do not let your privilege be a source of slander. 
17 For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. 
18 For whoever serves Christ in this way is acceptable to God and approved by men. 
19 So then, let us pursue those things which contribute to peace and mutual edification. 
20 Do not destroy the work of God through your concerns about food. Truly, all things are clean, but it is evil for a person to become a stumbling block when he eats. 
21 It is good not to eat meat or drink wine, or anything by which your brother or sister stumbles, or is offended, or is made weak. [Now in those days, it may happen that a disciple of Jesus who is taking care of his own business finds himself in a place where meals are organized to honor false gods. And here the apostle Paul is giving advice so that their deeds are not misinterpreted by those who may want to become disciples of Jesus and who do not yet have a good knowledge of the faith.] 
22 This faith that you have [concerning the fact that all things are clean], keep it for yourself before God [that is to say, you must not talk about it if the circumstances are not appropriate]. Blessed is the one who does not condemn himself in what he approves. [That is to say, do not deliberately trouble someone else under the pretext that you know that you can eat everything that you want. For faith in Christ precisely consists of seeking the well-being of others in everything that we do.] 
23 But whoever doubts what he eats is condemned [if his doubt consists in asking himself whether it is acceptable before God or not], because he does not eat with faith. Whatever is not done with faith is sin. [That is to say, the one who is not convinced that he is not hurting anyone is committing a sin.]
