1 We who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of the weak, and not to please ourselves. 
2 Let each of us please his neighbor in what is good for edification. 
3 For Christ was not pleased with himself, but as it is written: The reproaches of those who insult you have fallen on me. 
4 Now everything that has been written in the past was written for our instruction, so that through patience and through the comfort of the scriptures we may have hope.
5 May the God of patience and comfort grant you to be like-minded toward one another, according to Christ Jesus. 
6 So that all together, with one mouth, you may praise God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
7 Therefore receive one another as Christ also has received us, for the glory of God. 
8 Now I say that Jesus Christ has been a minister of the circumcised, to prove the truth of God by confirming the promises made to the fathers. 
9 And the Gentiles praise God because of his mercy, as it is written: Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.
10 And again he says: Gentiles, rejoice with his people. 
11 And again: Praise the Lord, you all the Gentiles. Celebrate him, you all the peoples. 
12 And Isaiah says: From Jesse there will come forth a root, who will rise to reign over the Gentiles. The Gentiles will hope in him. 
13 May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in faith, so that you may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Spirit. 
14 And I myself am convinced that as far as you are concerned, my brothers, you are full of good dispositions, and full of all knowledge, and able to exhort one another. 
15 However, in some measure, I have written to you with a kind of boldness as if to awaken your memories. 
16 I have acted thus because of the grace that God has given me to be a minister of Jesus Christ toward the Gentiles, carrying out the service of the gospel of God, so that the Gentiles may be an acceptable offering to him, being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. 
17 Therefore I have reason to boast in Christ Jesus in the things of God. 
18 For I will not dare to mention anything concerning myself, except what Christ has done through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience, by word and deed. 
19 With the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and the neighboring countries even to Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. 
20 And I did myself the honor of proclaiming the gospel where Christ had not been named, so as not to build on the foundation of another man. 
21 As it is written: Those to whom it was not preached will see, and those who had not heard of it will understand. 
22 That is what often stopped me from coming to you. 
23 But now, having no longer anything that keeps me in these regions, and having for several years the desire to come to you. 
24 I hope to come to you when I go to Spain, and to be accompanied there by some of you, after I have partly satisfied my desire to be with you. 
25 Now I am going to Jerusalem, to minister to the saints. 
26 For Macedonia and Achaia have been willing to make a contribution for the poor who are among the saints of Jerusalem. 
27 They have wanted it, and they owed it to them. For if the Gentiles have been partakers of the spiritual things of the Jews, then they must also assist the Jews in carnal things. 
28 As soon as I have finished this matter and given them these donations, I will come to you before continuing to Spain. 
29 And I know that when I come to you, it will be with a full blessing of Christ. 
30 I urge you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to fight with me by praying to God for me. 
31 So that I may be delivered from the disbelievers of Judea, and that the gifts that I bring to Jerusalem may be accepted by the saints. 
32 And so that I may come to you with joy, if it is the will of God, and may enjoy some rest among you. 
33 May the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
