1 I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea. 
2 So that you may receive her in the Lord, in a manner worthy of saints, and assist her in whatever she may need you. For she has been a helper of many, and of me also. 
3 Greet Prisca and Aquila. 
4 They have been my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, and have laid down their own necks for my life. And not only I give thanks to them, but also all the churches of the Gentiles do likewise. 
5 Greet also the church that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the firstfruits of Asia for Christ. 
6 Greet Mary, who took great pains for you. 
7 Greet Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow prisoners, who are highly respected among the apostles and who have been in Christ before me. 
8 Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord. 
9 Greet Urbanus our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys my beloved. 
10 Greet Apelles who is approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus. 
11 Greet Herodion my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord. 
12 Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, my beloved, who has labored greatly in the Lord. 
13 Greet Rufus who is chosen in the Lord, and his mother who is also mine. 
14 Greet Asyncritus, and Phlegon, and Hermes, and Patrobas, and Hermas, and the brothers who are with them. 
15 Greet Philologus and Julia, and Nereus, and his sister, and Olympus, and all the saints who are with them. 
16 Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
17 I urge you, brothers, to beware of those who cause divisions and offenses, and who are thus acting in a manner contrary to the teaching that you have learned. Stay away from them. 
18 For such people do not serve Christ our Lord, but their own belly, and they deceive the hearts of the simple with smooth and flattering words. 
19 Your obedience is well known to all, therefore I rejoice over you. But I desire that you may be wise in what is good, and pure in what is evil. 
20 And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
21 Timothy my fellow worker greets you. And also Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater my kinsmen. 
22 I Tertius, the writer of this epistle, greet you in the Lord. 
23 Gaius who is my host and that of the whole church greets you. Erastus the treasurer of the city greets you, as does our brother Quartus. 
24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
25 To him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. 
26 According to the revelation of the mystery hidden since the world began, but now made manifest through the scriptures of the prophets according to the commandment of the everlasting God, and made known to all nations for obedience to faith. 
27 To God, the only wise, be glory forever and ever through Jesus Christ. Amen.
