1 Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
2 For it is by Jesus that our faith can give us access into this grace in which we stand [that is to say, it is Jesus who has allowed us to know exactly how we must serve God]. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God.
3 And not only so, but we also rejoice in tribulations, knowing that tribulation tests our perseverance. 
4 And perseverance produces victory, and victory produces hope. 
5 And this hope cannot disappoint us, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. 
6 For when we were still without strength, the appropriate time came and Christ died for the ungodly. 
7 In those days it was hard to see someone die for a righteous man. Perhaps someone could die for a good man. 
8 But God demonstrates his love toward us in that, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 
9 Much more then, having been justified by his blood, we will be saved from the wrath of God if we stay in him. 
10 For if we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son when we were enemies, much more, being reconciled, we will be saved by his life. 
11 And not only so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the reconciliation. 
12 Sin entered into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all have sinned. 
13 For sin was in the world until the law, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. 
14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the manner of Adam [that is to say, those who did not disobey an order received directly from an angel of God]. Adam was the figure of the one who was to come. 
15 But the free gift of God [which is life in Jesus Christ] does not only behave like the sin of Adam. For if many died through the offense of one man, much more the grace of God and the gift by grace, which has come by one man who is Jesus Christ, has abounded to many. 
16 And the gift is not like that which came through one man who sinned. For the judgment became condemnation after one offense, but the free gift becomes justification after many offenses. 
17 If by one man's offense death reigned through one, much more those who receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through one who is Jesus Christ. 
18 So then, just as the judgment of condemnation came to all men by the offense of one, so the justification that leads to life came to all by the righteousness of one. 
19 For just as many were made sinners by one man's disobedience, so many will be made righteous by the obedience of one. 
20 Now the law was given so that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded [in this way], grace abounded more exceedingly. [Here it is about the advantage of the people who received the law, and who were a distinct people during the whole time when no one had yet explained that God does not need a temple to receive the category of offerings that the law requires to be given to him alone in precise quantities during the few holidays that have been created. All this will be finished after the destruction of the temple that existed during the life of Jesus, but some people have retained the advantage of being able to explain the knowledge of Christ to others based on the Jewish scriptures.]
21 So that just as sin reigned for death, so grace may reign by righteousness for eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
