1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ called to be an apostle, set apart to proclaim the gospel of God. 
2 The good news that God had promised before through his prophets in the holy scriptures. 
3 Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, born of the seed of David according to the flesh. 
4 And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by his resurrection from the dead. 
5 By whom we have received grace and apostleship, in order to lead all peoples to obedience by faith in his name. 
6 And you also are called to belong to Jesus Christ. 
7 To all those who are in Rome and who are called to be saints because they are beloved by God: May grace and peace be with you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
8 First of all, I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ concerning you all, because your faith is renowned throughout the whole world. 
9 And God, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, is my witness that I always make mention of you in my prayers. 
10 Continually asking to finally have, by his will, the happiness to come to you.  
11 For I long to see you, in order to transmit to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be strengthened. 
12 Or rather, so that we may be encouraged together among you by the faith that you and I have in common. 
13 Brothers, I do not want you to be unaware of the fact that I have often planned to come to you, in order to have some fruit in you also as among other nations. But until now I have been prevented. 
14 For I have the duty to serve both the Greeks and the barbarians, and both the learned and to the unlearned.
15 Therefore I am eager to preach the gospel to you also, you who are in Rome. 
16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes, first to the Jew and also to the Greek. [For the Jew is the one who is supposed to know the law of Moses, the law that we use to explain the message of the gospel of Christ.] 
17 For in it is revealed the righteousness of God from faith [in the law of Moses] to faith [in the law of Christ], as it is written: The righteous will live by faith. [Now in the following prophecy which had been given by the prophet Habakkuk, the Lord announced the imminent coming of a faith that is different from the faith in the law of Moses: Write the prophecy. Engrave it clearly on tablets so that it may be read easily. For it is a prophecy whose time has already been set. It is near its end and will not lie. Wait for it, although it may delay. For it will surely be fulfilled, it will not last forever. [Write the following sentence.] Behold his soul has swelled up, it is not straight in him, but the righteous will live by his faith.]  
18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hinder the truth in unrighteousness. [That is to say, against those who hide a truth with the aim of causing an injustice.] 
19 For what may be known about God is manifest to them, God having made it known to them. 
20 For the invisible perfections of God, his eternal power and divinity, are clearly seen from the creation of the world when they are considered in his works. [That is to say, the greatness of the unique commandment given by Jesus can be perceived in all the holy scriptures from the account of the creation of the world, in all the narratives that preceded and followed the law given by Moses.] 
21 Therefore they are inexcusable. For despite the fact that they have known God [whom we have declared to them by the preaching of the gospel of Christ], they have not exalted him as God and have not been grateful. And they have become futile in their reasonings, and their foolish hearts have been darkened. 
22 Boasting about being wise, they have become fools. 
23 And they have changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of the image of corruptible man, and of birds, and of four-footed beasts, and of creeping things. 
24 Therefore God gave them up to impurity in the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies with each other. 
25 For they have changed the truth of God into a lie, and have worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen. 
26 Therefore God gave them up to vile passions. And even their women have changed the natural use into that which is against nature. 
27 And likewise the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another, men with men committing shameful things and receiving in themselves the reward that their error deserves. 
28 For as they have refused to acknowledge God, so God has delivered them to a depraved mind to do what is unworthy, being full of all unrighteousness, and of fornication, and of wickedness, and of covetousness, and of maliciousness. 
29 Full of envy, and of murder, and of quarrelsomeness, and of deceit, and of malignity. 
30 Whisperers, and slanderers, haters of God, arrogant, haughty, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents. 
31 Without understanding, covenant-breakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful. 
32 And although they know the judgment of God who declares worthy of death those who commit such things, not only do they do them, but they also approve those who do them.
