1 Naomi her mother in law said to her: My daughter, should I not seek you rest so that you may prosper. 
2 And now, is not Boaz our kinsman. And you used to be with his handmaids. Behold he must winnow the barley that is in the threshing floor this night. 
3 Therefore wash, anoint and clothe yourself. And go down to the threshing floor, but do not let him know that you are there until he has finished eating and drinking. 
4 And when he goes to sleep, you will observe the place where he is. Then you will enter that place and uncover his feet, and lie down next to him. He will tell you himself what to do. 
5 And she replied to Naomi: I will do everything that you have said. 
6 So she went down to the threshing floor, and did all that her mother in law had commanded. 
7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and comforted his heart, then he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. And she approached softly, and uncovered his feet, and lay down beside him. 
8 And in the middle of the night the man was afraid and turned himself. And behold, a woman had lain at his feet. 
9 And he said, Who are you. And she replied: I am Ruth, your handmaid. Spread therefore your cover over your handmaid, for you are a near kinsman. 
10 And he said: Blessed be you of Yahweh, my daughter. You showed more kindness in the latter end than in the beginning, inasmuch as you did not follow the young men, whether they were poor or rich. 
11 And now my daughter, do not be afraid. I will do for you whatever you say. For all the people in our city know that you are a righteous woman. 
12 And now, it is true that I am your kinsman but there is another closer than me. 
13 Spend the night here and when the morning come, if he wants to fulfill the duty of a kinsman toward you, then let him do the duty of a kinsman. But if he will not do it, then I will do the duty of a kinsman as surely as Yahweh is alive. Now stay her until the morning. 
14 And she lay at his feet until the morning, and she got up before one could recognize each other. For Boaz said: Let it not be known that a woman has come into the threshing floor. 
15 And he added: Give the mantle that is on you, and hold it. And when she held it, then he measured six measures of barley which he laid on her. And she returned to the city. 
16 And when Ruth returned to her mother in law, then Naomi said: Is it you, my daughter. And Ruth told her all that the man had done for her. 
17 And she said: He gave me these six measures of barley by saying: You will not return empty to your mother in law. 
18 Then Naomi said: Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the thing will end. For this man will not rest until he has finished the matter this same day.
