1 In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man from Bethlehem of Judah departed to sojourn in the land of Moab, he, his wife, and his two sons. 
2 And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife was Naomi, and his two sons were called Mahlon and Chilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem of Judah, and they came into the land of Moab and made their home there. 
3 Then Naomi’s husband, Elimelech, died. And she stayed with her two sons. 
4 And they took Moabites as wives. The name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelt there about ten years. 
5 Then Mahlon and Chilion also died, and Naomi remained deprived of her two sons and her husband.
6 Then she arose with her daughters in law and returned from the land of Moab. For she had heard in the land of Moab that Yahweh had visited his people and had given them bread.
7 So she left the place where she was, accompanied by her two daughters in law, and they set out to return to the land of Judah. 
8 Then Naomi said to her two daughters in law: Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May Yahweh show kindness to you, as you did to those who died [my sons] and to me. 
9 May Yahweh make each of you find rest in a husband’s house. And when she kissed them, then they raised their voices and wept. 
10 And they said to her: Surely we will come with you to your people. 
11 But Naomi said: Return [to your homes], my daughters. Why would you come with me. Do I still have sons in my womb who can become your husbands. 
12 Go back my daughters, go your ways. For I am too old to have a husband. And if I said, I have hope. And if I had a husband tonight and conceived sons. 
13 Would you wait until they had grown up. Would you refuse to get married because of them. No my daughters. For it grieves me greatly, because of you, that the hand of Yahweh has risen against me.
14 And they raised their voices and wept again. Then Orpah kissed his mother in law [and left], but Ruth clung to her. 
15 And Naomi said to Ruth: Behold your sister in law has returned to her people and to her gods. Go back, like your sister in law. 
16 And Ruth replied: Do not urge me to leave you, and to depart far from you. For where you go I will go, and where you stay I will stay. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. 
17 Where you die I will die, and there I will be buried. May Yahweh deal with me with all his rigor, if anything other than death separates me from you. 
18 When Naomi saw that she was firmly determined to accompany her, then Naomi ceased her supplications. 
19 So they journeyed together until they came to Bethlehem. And when they entered Bethlehem, then it was noised of them throughout the city by saying: Is not that person Naomi.
20 And she answered them: Do not call me Naomi, but call me Mara. For the Almighty has filled me with bitterness. 
21 I was in abundance when I went out, and Yahweh caused me to return empty. Why should you call me Naomi, since Yahweh has humbled me and the Almighty has brought me into adversity. 
22 Thus was the return of Naomi from the land of Moab, with her daughter in law Ruth the Moabite. And they arrived in Bethlehem at the beginning of the barley harvest.
