1 Then Boaz went up to a gathering place near the gate of the city and sat there. And behold, the near kinsman of whom Boaz had spoken was approaching. So Boaz said to him: Come and sit down here, you such a one. And he came near, and sat down. 
2 Then Boaz took ten men of the elders of the city and said: Sit down here. And they sat down. 
3 Then he said to the near kinsman: Naomi who had returned from the land of Moab is selling the parcel of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech. 
4 And I thought that I had to inform you of this. Now therefore, acquire it in the presence of those who are here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you want to redeem it, then redeem it. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me so that I know. For there is no one before you who has the right of redemption, and I am after you. And he answered: I will redeem it. 
5 Then Boaz said: In the day that you acquire the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also marry Ruth the Moabite who is the wife of [the son of] our dead brother. For you must raise up the name of our dead brother in his inheritance. 
6 And the near kinsman answered: I cannot redeem it, lest I destroy my own inheritance. Take for yourself my right of redemption, for I cannot redeem it. 
7 In those days in Israel there was a custom in order to confirm all things concerning a purchase or an exchange. One had to take off his shoe and give it to the other, and this served as a witness in Israel. 
8 Therefore the near kinsman said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. And he took off his shoe. 
9 And Boaz said to the elders and to all the people: You are witnesses this day that I have acquired from the hand of Naomi all the goods of Elimelech, and of [his sons] Chilion and Mahlon. 
10 And also that I acquired Ruth the Moabitess and wife of Mahlon to be my wife, in order to raise up the name of our dead brother in his inheritance. And thus the name of our dead brother will not be cut off from among his brothers and inside the gate of his place. You are witnesses this day. 
11 And the elders and all the people who were at the gate said: We are witnesses. May Yahweh make the woman who comes into your house like Rachel and Leah, who both built the house of Israel. Act worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Bethlehem. 
12 May the seed that Yahweh will give you through this young woman makes your house like the house of Perez who was born to Judah by Tamar. 
13 So Boaz took Ruth who became his wife. And when he went to her, then Yahweh caused her to conceive and she bore a son. 
14 And the women said to Naomi: Blessed be Yahweh who has not let you lack a kinsman this day. May the name [of your house] be famous in Israel. 
15 And [the coming of] this child will restore your soul and comfort your old days. For your daughter in law who loves and who is better for you than seven sons, has given birth to him. 
16 And Naomi took the child and placed him on her thighs, and became his nurse. 
17 And the women who were her neighbors gave him a name by saying, A son is born to Naomi. And they called him Obed. The same was the father of Jesse who was the father of David. 
18 Now these are the descendants of Perez. Perez begat Hezron. 
19 And Hezron begat Ram. And Ram begat Amminadab. 
20 And Amminadab begat Nahshon. And Nahshon begat Salmon. 
21 And Salmon begat Boaz. And Boaz begat Obed. 
22 And Obed begat Jesse. And Jesse begat David.
