1 Naomi's husband had a kinsman who was a powerful and rich man from the family of Elimelech, and whose name was Boaz. 
2 And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi: I pray you to let me go and gather ears of grain in the field of him in whose eyes I will find favor. And she answered her: Go my daughter. 
3 And she went to glean in a field behind the reapers. And it happened that the portion of land belonged to Boaz who was of the family of Elimelech. 
4 And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers: May Yahweh be with you. And they answered him: May Yahweh bless you. 
5 Then Boaz said to his servant who was appointed over the reapers: Whose young woman is this. 
6 And the servant who was appointed over the reapers replied: She is a Moabite woman who returned with Naomi from the land of Moab. 
7 And she said to us: I pray you to let me glean and gather behind the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and continued from that time in the morning until now, and rested only a moment in the house. 
8 Then Boaz said to Ruth: Listen to me, my daughter. Do not gather grain in another field, and do not leave here. But stay with my maidservants. 
9 Look where they are harvesting in the field, and go after them. I forbade my servants to touch you. And when you are thirsty, then you will go to the vessels and drink of what the servants have drawn. 
10 Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground, and she said to him: How have I found favor in your eyes. For you care about me who am a stranger. 
11 And Boaz answered and said to her: It has been reported to me everything that you have done for your mother in law since the death of your husband. And also how you left your father and your mother and the land of your birth, to come to a people that you did not know previously. 
12 May Yahweh reward you for what you have done, and may your reward be full from Yahweh the God of Israel under whose wings you have come to take refuge. 
13 Then she said: Let me find favor in your sight, my lord. For you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your handmaid, although I am not like one of your handmaids. 
14 And Boaz said to her, Come near at the meal time to eat bread and dip your morsel in vinegar. So she sat beside the reapers, and they gave her roasted grain. And she ate and was satisfied, and kept the remaining.
15 And when she get up to glean, then Boaz commanded his servants by saying: Let her gather the grain among the sheaves, and do not rebuke her. 
16 And you will even remove a few ears of corn from the sheaves for her. And you will let her gather it without reproaching her. 
17 So she gleaned in the field until the evening, and she threshed what she had gathered, and it made about an ephah of barley. 
18 And she took it and returned to the city, and her mother in law saw what she had gleaned. She also brought the remains of her meal which she had kept, and she gave it to Naomi. 
19 Then her mother in law said to her: Where have you gleaned today, and where have you worked. Blessed is he who took care of you. And Ruth told her mother in law where she had worked, and said: The man for whom I worked today is named Boaz. 
20 And Naomi said to her daughter in law: Blessed be he of Yahweh, who shows himself merciful to the living as he was to those who are dead. And Naomi said again to her: This man is our relative, and one of our near kinsmen. 
21 And Ruth the Moabite said, He also said to me: Stay with my servants until they have completed my entire harvest. 
22 And Naomi answered to Ruth her daughter in law: It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his handmaids and let no one meet you in another field. 
23 So she continued to go out with the handmaids of Boaz to glean, until the end of the barley harvest and the wheat harvest. And she dwelt with her mother in law.
