1 The song of songs, which is written by Solomon. 
2 Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. For your love is better than wine [O you my bridegroom].
3 Your name is like an oil that has a pleasant smell and that is poured out on the body. It is why the virgins love you. 
4 Take me with you, for we will run after you. The king has brought me into his private rooms. We will be happy and rejoice in you. We will remember your love more than wine. Those who are righteous love you. 
5 O daughters of Jerusalem, I am black but I am beautiful like the tents of Kedar, and like the curtains of Solomon. 
6 Do not stare at me only because I am black. For it is the sun that has tanned me. The sons of my mother were angry against me, and they made me the guardian of the vineyards. And I have not taken care of my own vineyard. 
7 O you [my bridegroom] whom my soul loves, tell me where you graze your sheep, where you cause them to rest at noon. For why should I be like one who is lost near the flocks of your companions. 
8 If you know not where to go, O you the most beautiful among women, then follow the footsteps of the sheep and graze your young goats near the tents of the shepherds. [If you know not how to get closer to me your God in order to do only what pleases me, then you can start by imitating the behavior of the prophets.] 
9 O my love [my bride], you are more beautiful to look at than a company of horses in Pharaoh's chariots. 
10 Your cheeks are beautiful with the ornaments hanging beside them, and your neck with chains of gold. 
11 We will make you more jewels of gold and of silver. 
12 My perfume gives its smell while the king [my bridegroom] sat at his table. 
13 My beloved [who is my bridegroom] is for me like a bundle of myrrh that rests between my breasts. 
14 My beloved is for me like a bouquet of henna flowers in the vineyards of En-gedi. 
15 O my love [my bride], you are so beautiful [when you describe your love for me with theses words]. You are beautiful, your eyes are like doves. 
16 O my beloved [my bridegroom], you are beautiful and pleasant. Our bed is greenery. 
17 The walls of our house are of cedars, and our rafters are of firs.
