1 O my sister, my bride, I enter my garden. I gather my myrrh with my spices. I eat my honeycomb with my honey, I drink my wine with my milk. 
2 Eat, O friend, and drink. Delight yourself, O my beloved [my bridegroom]. I am asleep, but my heart is awaken. It is the voice of my beloved that knocks by saying: Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled (who have been purified). For my head is covered with dew, my locks are full of the drops of the night. 
3 Now I have taken off my garment. Why should I put it on. I have washed my feet. Why should I defile them. 
4 My beloved did put his hand through the opening, and my heart was moved for him. 
5 And I rose to open to my beloved. And my hands dripped myrrh, my fingers laid myrrh on the handle of the bolt. 
6 I opened the door to my beloved, but my beloved had gone and could no longer be seen. I was beside myself when he had spoken to me. I sought him, but I could not find him. I called him, but he did not answer me. 
7 The watchmen who went around the city found me. They smote me and wounded me. The keepers of the walls took away my veil from me. 
8 O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, I adjure you to tell him that I am sick because of my love for him. 
9 O you the most beautiful among women, what has your beloved more than the other beloved. Why is your beloved different from another lover. What causes you to adjure us thus. 
10 My beloved is tanned and radiant, he can be recognized while standing among ten thousand men. 
11 His head is like the most fine gold. His locks are curly, and as black as a raven. 
12 His eyes are like two doves that are near the rivers of waters, and that routinely wash themselves in milk. They are like a pair of jewels in its setting. 
13 His cheeks are like a bed of spices, a ground covered with pleasant flowers at the edge of a river. His lips are like lilies dropping liquid myrrh. 
14 His hands are like rings of gold filled with olivine. His body is like polished ivory adorned with sapphires. 
15 His legs are like pillars of marble set on bases of pure gold. His countenance is like Lebanon, as excellent as the cedars. 
16 His mouth is the sweetest thing, and his whole person is lovely. This is my beloved [who is my bridegroom], this is my lover, O daughters of Jerusalem.
