1 You are so beautiful, my love [my bride]. You are so beautiful. Your eyes are like doves behind your veil. Your hair is like a flock of goats that graze on the slopes of mount Gilead. 
2 Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that are well arranged and are coming up from the washing. None of them is barren, and each of them bears twins. 
3 Your lips are like a thread of scarlet, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like two pieces of a pomegranate behind your veil. 
4 Your neck is like the tower of David built for an armory. A thousand shields are hanging on that tower, all the shields of the mighty men. 
5 Your two breasts are like two young deer that are twins and that feed among the lilies. 
6 I will go to that mountain of myrrh and to that hill of frankincense, until the day fades and the shadows flee. 
7 You are wholly beautiful, my love, and there is no blemish in you. 
8 Come with me from Lebanon, my bride, come with me from Lebanon. Come from the top of Amana, from the top of Senir and Hermon, from the dens of the lions, from the mountains of the leopards. 
9 You have stolen my heart, my sister, my bride. You have stolen my heart with one of the look from your eyes, and with the chain at your neck. 
10 Your love is so charming, my sister, my bride. Your love is much better than wine, and the smell of your ointment is much better than all kinds of spices. 
11 Your lips drop honey, O my bride. There is honey and milk under your tongue, and the smell of your garments is like the smell of Lebanon. 
12 You are a garden enclosed, my sister, my bride. A spring shut up, a fountain sealed. 
13 Your limbs are like a garden of pomegranates and of other precious fruits, such as henna, and spikenard. 
14 And saffron, and calamus, and cinnamon, and all trees of frankincense, and myrrh, and aloes, and all the chief spices. 
15 You are like a fountain of gardens, a spring of running waters flowing from Lebanon [O my bride]. 
16 Arise, north wind. Come, south wind. Blow on my garden and spread its smell. Let my beloved [my bridegroom] come into his garden and eat its pleasant fruit.
