1 I am a rose of Sharon, and a lily of the valleys [O my bridegroom]. 
2 As a lily among thorns, so is my love [my bride] among the young women. 
3 As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved [my bridegroom] among the sons of men. I desire to sit under his shadow, and its fruit is sweet to my taste. 
4 He brought me into the house of wine, and his intention towards me was love. 
5 Strengthen me with raisins, refresh me with apples. For I am sick because of my love for you. 
6 His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embrace me. 
7 O daughters of Jerusalem, I adjure you by the deer and by the hinds of the field to do the following thing: Do not awaken carnal love before its proper time, do not awaken it.
8 I hear the voice of my beloved. Behold he comes, leaping on the mountains and skipping on the hills. 
9 My beloved is like a deer or a young hart. Behold he stands behind our wall, and he looks out of the windows. He looks through the lattice. 
10 My beloved [my bridegroom] speaks and says to me: Arise my love, my beautiful one, and come to me. 
11 For behold, the winter is past. The rain has ceased, it is gone. 
12 The flowers appear on the land. The time of the singing of the birds has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land. 
13 There are young figs on the fig tree, and one can smell the small grapes of the vines. Arise my love, my beautiful one, and come to me. 
14 O my dove [my bride], you dwell in the clefts of the rock and you hide your thoughts in the high places. Let me see your face, let me hear your voice. For your voice is sweet, and your face is beautiful. 
15 Catch the foxes for us [O my bridegroom], the little foxes that ravage the vineyards. For our vineyards have begun to produce grapes. 
16 My beloved [who is my bridegroom] is mine, and I am his. He feeds his flock among the lilies until the day fades and the shadows flee.
17 Come, my beloved, and be like a deer or a young hart on the mountains of Bether.
