1 Now I regret that you are not my brother, a brother who sucked the breasts of my mother. For then I could have embraced you outside as soon as I succeed in finding you, without it making me despicable in the eyes of others. 
2 I would lead you and bring you into my mother's house. You would instruct me there, and I would cause you to drink of spiced wine which is the juice of my pomegranate. 
3 His left arm should be under my head, and his right hand should touch me. 
4 O daughters of Jerusalem, I adjure you to not awaken carnal love before its proper time. Do not awaken it. 
5 Who is this woman who comes up from the wilderness while leaning on her beloved. [A question asked by the narrator who is neither the bride described in the story nor the bridegroom]
6 O you my bridegroom, I have awakened you under the apple tree. It is there that your mother gave birth to you, it is there that the woman who bore you have given birth to you. O you my bride, set me like a seal on your heart, like a signet ring on your hand. For love is as strong as death, and jealousy is as cruel as the grave. Their ardor is like burning coals, for they are flames of God. 
7 O you my bridegroom, many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods overcome it. If a man [or more precisely a woman as I am] wants to give all the riches contained in his house to obtain love, then will he be despised for this action. 
8 We [the people of the country] have a little sister and her breasts are not yet developed. What will we do for our sister in the day when a man asks to marry her. 
9 If she were a wall then we would have built a palace of silver inside. If she were a door then we will have enclosed her with boards of cedar. 
10 As for me, I am a wall and my breasts are like towers. And I appear in the eyes of my bridegroom as a person who has found peace. 
11 O my bride, Solomon had a vineyard in Baal-hamon. He gave the vineyard to keepers, and each man brought grapes worth a thousand pieces of silver to Solomon. 
12 As for me, my kind of vineyard belongs to me and I am its keeper. And you, O Solomon, you have to reward each of the keepers of your kind of vineyard with two hundred pieces of silver for the work which has given you a product worth one thousand pieces of silver. 
13 O my beloved my bridegroom who dwells in the gardens, my companions seem to hear your voice. Cause me to hear it also. 
14 Come, O my beloved, and be like a deer or a young hart on the mountains of spices.
