1 And the angel who talked with me came again and awoke me, as a man who is awakened from his sleep. 
2 And he said to me, 'What do you see'. And I replied: I have looked, and behold, there is a candlestick all of gold. It has seven lamps on it, and a bowl on its top, and there are seven tubes coming from the bowl to give oil for the lamps that are on the candlestick, each lamp having its tube. 
3 And there are two olive trees beside it, one on the right side of the bowl and the other on its left side. 
4 And I spoke again and said to the angel who was talking with me: What do these things mean, my lord. 
5 Then the angel who was talking with me answered me and said to me, 'Do you not know what these things mean'. And I said, 'No, my lord'. 
6 Then he answered and spoke to me by saying: The following is the word of Yahweh to Zerubbabel: Not by strength nor by power, but by my spirit, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
7 Who are you before Zerubbabel, O great mountain. You will appear as a plain before him. He will lay the cornerstone and the people will shout: Grace, grace to it. 
8 Moreover the word of Yahweh came to me in the following words. 
9 The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house, and his hands will finish it. And you will know that Yahweh the God of armies has sent me to you. 
10 For those who despised the day of small things will rejoice when they see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel. These seven are the eyes of Yahweh running to and fro throughout the whole earth.  
11 Then I spoke and said to him: What is the meaning of these two olive trees that are on right side and on the left side of the candlestick. 
12 And I spoke again and said to him: What is the meaning of the two olive branches from which golden oil are flowing into two golden tubes. 
13 And he answered me and said, 'Do you not know what they mean'. And I said, 'No, my lord'. 
14 Then he said: These are the two anointed ones who stand before the Lord of the whole earth.
