1 The burden of the word of Yahweh concerning Israel [that is to say, concerning those who hold to the law given to the children of Jacob and who are in this way the spiritual children of those who were called Israel when the exact identity of Yahweh had not yet revealed]. Thus says Yahweh who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth, and formed the spirit of man within him. 
2 Behold I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling for all the surrounding peoples, when they will be in the siege both against Judah and against Jerusalem. 
3 In that day I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all peoples. All those who will lift it up will be torn, although all the peoples of the earth will be gathered together against it. 
4 In that day, says Yahweh, I will smite every horse with astonishment, and its rider with madness. And I will open my eyes on the house of Judah, when I smite every horse of the peoples with blindness. 
5 And the leaders of Judah will say in their hearts: The inhabitants of Jerusalem are our strength in Yahweh the God of armies their God. 
6 In that day I will make the leaders of Judah like a hearth of fire among the wood, like a flaming torch among the sheaves. And they will devour all the surrounding peoples, on the right hand and on the left. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem will dwell in their place, in Jerusalem. 
7 Yahweh will also save the tents of Judah first, so that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do not be magnified above Judah. [That is to say, Yahweh must not give the impression that he has a preference for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem over the other persons who live in the territory of Judah.] 
8 In that day Yahweh will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the feeble among them in that day will be like David. And the house of David will be like God, like the angel of Yahweh before them. [That is to say, those who are the descendants of David will be like gods and will be distinguished from the other inhabitants of Jerusalem who will be as strong as David, because the children of Israel will know exactly what they are worshipping. When a first king had not been established over Israel, in the days of the judges whom the spirit of Yahweh was choosing in different tribes of Israel, Gideon had told the people that he did not want to establish a kingdom in Israel for himself and for his children because it is Yahweh who must be the king of Israel. But after those days there came the judge Samuel who established Saul as the first king at the request of the people, and David became the second king of Israel because he feared Yahweh, and we think that things have changed since David our great leader whose children deserve to be like gods. Now we know exactly what we are worshipping.] 
9 In that day I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 
10 Then I will pour out the spirit of grace and of supplication on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And they will look on me, the one whom they have pierced. And they will lament for him, as one mourns for his only son, and they will be in bitterness for him as one is in bitterness for his firstborn. 
11 In that day there will be a great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning for Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon. 
12 And the land will mourn, every family separately. The family of the house of David separately, and their wives separately. The family of the house of Nathan separately, and their wives separately. 
13 The family of the house of Levi separately, and their wives separately. The family of Shimei separately, and their wives separately. 
14 And all the other families, every family separately, and their wives separately.
