1 In the fourth year of king Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month which is the month Chislev. [Now the house of Yahweh is under construction at that time, since this construction was completed in the sixth year of the reign of king Darius.] 
2 For the people of Bethel had sent to the house of God Sharezer and Regem-melech, and their men, to intreat the favor of Yahweh. [Now the prophet Haggai made it clear in his writings that Yahweh was angry with the people as long as the house of Yahweh was not completely finished and beautified.] 
3 And to say to the priests of the house of Yahweh the God of armies, and to the prophets: Should I weep and isolate myself in the fifth month, as I have done these many years. 
4 Then the word of Yahweh the God of armies came to me in the following words. 
5 Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, and say to them: When you fasted and wept in the fifth month and in the seventh month, even those seventy years, were you fasting for me. Were you doing it with the intention of giving me pleasure. 
6 And when you eat and drink [during the other days when you are not fasting], are you not the ones eating and drinking. 
7 Do you not know the words that Yahweh spoke through the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity. The cities all around Jerusalem were inhabited, and the south, and the plain. 
8 And the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah in the following words. 
9 Thus had spoken Yahweh the God of armies: Execute true justice, and show mercy and compassion every man to his brother. 
10 Do not oppress the widow, nor the fatherless, nor the stranger, nor the poor. And let none of you plan evil against his brother in your heart. 
11 But they refused to listen. They had rebellious shoulders, and they hardened their ears so as not to hear. 
12 Yes, they made their hearts as hard as diamonds so as not to listen to the law, and so as not to hear the words that Yahweh the God of armies was sending to them by his spirit through the former prophets. Therefore there came a great wrath from Yahweh the God of armies. 
13 Since they had not wanted to listen when he was crying out, therefore I did not want to pay attention when they were weeping, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
14 So I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations whom they did not know. And the land was desolate behind them, and there was no one to come or go there, because they caused the pleasant land to become a desolation.
