1 Afterward the word of Yahweh the God of armies came to me in the following words. [Now these words are consistent with those of the prophet Haggai if we assume that they were revealed in the seventh year of king Darius.] 
2 Thus says Yahweh the God od armies: I am jealous for Zion with a great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with a great fury [and that is why I destroyed it when there were transgressions]. 
3 Thus says Yahweh: I have returned to Zion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem will be called the city of truth [now that I have come back to dwell there], and the mountain of Yahweh the God of armies will be called the holy mountain. 
4 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Old men and old women will again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, every man with his staff in his hand because of his great age. 
5 And the streets of the city will be full of boys and girls playing in the streets. 
6 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: If it seems marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, should it also be marvelous in my sight. Says Yahweh the God of armies. 
7 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Behold I will save my people from the east country and from the west country. 
8 And I will bring them, and they will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they will be my people, and I will be their God in truth and in righteousness. 
9 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Strengthen your hands, you who hear in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets who have appeared in the day [namely the days] when the foundation of the house of Yahweh the God of armies has been laid, when the people has begun to rebuild the temple. [Now in the sight of Yahweh the notion of day does not always designate a single day but very often a period of time.] 
10 For before these days there was no wage for man, nor wage for beast. There was no peace for those who came in and went out because of the affliction. For I have set all men every one against his neighbor. 
11 But now I will not be with the remnant of this people as I was in the former days, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
12 For the seed will flourish, and the vine will yield its fruit, and the ground will give its produce, and the heavens will send down their dew. I will cause the remnant of this people to enjoy all these things. 
13 Just as you have been a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you and you will be a blessing. Do not be afraid, but let your hands be strong. 
14 For thus says Yahweh the God of armies: I thought to harm you when your fathers provoked me to anger, says Yahweh the God of armies, and I did not repent. 
15 In the same way I have purposed in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not be afraid. 
16 Here is what you have to do: Let everyone speak uprightly to his neighbor [that is to say, do not seek to mislead anyone without having publicly acceptable justifications in your heart], execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates. 
17 And let no one plan evil in his heart against his neighbor, and do not love false oaths. For all these things are the things that I hate, says Yahweh. 
18 And the word of Yahweh the God of armies came to me in the following words. 
19 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: The fasting of the fourth month, and the fasting of the fifth month, and the fasting of the seventh month, and the fasting of the tenth month, will be to the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts. But you have to love truth and peace. 
20 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Peoples and inhabitants of many cities will come again. 
21 And the inhabitants of one city will go to another by saying: Let us go speedily to entreat the favor of Yahweh, to seek Yahweh the God of armies. And others will hear it and say: I will go also. 
22 And many peoples and strong nations will come to seek Yahweh the God of armies in Jerusalem, to entreat the favor of Yahweh. 
23 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: In those days ten men from all the languages of the nations will take hold of a Jew by the hem of his garment by saying: We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. [Now these words are consistent with those of the prophet Haggai if we assume that they were revealed in the seventh year of king Darius.] 
