1 And I lifted up my eyes again and looked, and behold, four chariots were coming out from between two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of brass. 
2 The first chariot was pulled by red horses, and the second chariot was pulled by black horses. 
3 And the third chariot was pulled by white horses, and the fourth chariot was pulled by red speckled horses. 
4 Then I spoke and said to the angel who was talking with me: What is this, my lord. 
5 And the angel answered and said to me: These are the four winds of heaven, coming out from where they stood before the Lord of the whole the earth. 
6 Now the black horses went toward the north country, and the white ones followed them, and the speckled ones went toward the south country. 
7 And the red ones came forth and asked to walk to and fro throughout the earth. And the angel said to them, 'Go and walk to and fro throughout the earth'. So they walked to and fro throughout the earth. 
8 Then he called and spoke to me by saying: Behold those who have gone toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country. 
9 And the word of Yahweh came to me [some time after the previous vision] in the following words. 
10 Take gifts from the captives who have come recently from Babylon. Take it of Heldai, and of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, and you will go on the same day to the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah. 
11 Use the silver and gold to make a crown, and put it on the head of the high priest Joshua the son of Jehozadak. 
12 And you will say to him, Thus speaks Yahweh the God of armies: Behold a man whose name is the Branch will sprout from his place and will build the temple of Yahweh. 
13 He will build the temple of Yahweh, and he will bear the glory. He will sit and rule on his throne, and he will be a priest on his throne, and there will be perfect harmony between them both [that is to say, between his two functions of king and priest]. 
14 And you Zechariah, regarding the crown that you have made and in which have participated Heldai, and Tobijah, and Jedaiah, and Josiah the son of Zephaniah, it will be place in the temple of Yahweh for a memorial [and thus it will honor those men who have contributed to its making]. 
15 And those who are far off will come and work in the temple of Yahweh, and you will know that Yahweh the God of armies has sent me to you. This will happen if you obey the voice of Yahweh your God.
