1 Behold the day of Yahweh is coming, and your spoil will be divided in your midst. 
2 For I will gather all the nations to battle against Jerusalem. The city will be captured, and the houses will be plundered, and the women will be raped. Half the city will go into captivity, and the remnant of the people will not be cut off from the city. 
3 Then Yahweh will go forth and will fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle. 
4 And in that day his feet will stand on the mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east. And the mount of Olives will split in two parts, and there will be a very large valley from the east and to the west. And half of the mountain will move toward the north, and the other half will move toward the south. 
5 And you will flee to the valley of the mountains, and the valley of the mountains will reach as far as Azel. Yes, you will flee as you fled before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. And Yahweh my God will come, and all the holy ones with you. 
6 In that day there will neither be light nor darkness, nor cold, nor hot. 
7 It will be a day known to Yahweh. There will be neither day nor night, but in the evening time there will be light. 
8 In that day living waters will flow and go out from Jerusalem. Half of them will flow toward the eastern sea, and half of them will flow toward the uttermost sea, both in summer and in winter. 
9 And Yahweh will be king over all the earth. In that day Yahweh will be the only Lord, and his name will be the only name. 
10 The whole land will become like a plain, from Geba to Rimmon, toward the south of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem will be lifted up and will remain in its place, From Benjamin's gate to the place of the first gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses. 
11 And men will dwell in it, and there will be no more desolation. Jerusalem will be safe. 
12 And this will be the plague with which Yahweh will smite all the peoples who have fought against Jerusalem: their flesh will rot while they stand on their feet, and their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongue will rot in their mouths. 
13 In that day Yahweh will cause a great turmoil among them. And every one will take the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will rise up against the hand his neighbor. 
14 And Judah will also fight at Jerusalem, and they will gather the wealth of all the surrounding nations: gold, and silver, and a great abundance of clothing. 
15 And the plague will also strike the horses, and the mules, and the camels, and the donkeys, and all the animals that will be in those camps like that plague. 
16 And everyone who will remain from all the nations that came against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to worship the king, Yahweh the God of armies, and to celebrate the feast of tabernacles. 
17 Whoever of all the families of the earth does not come up at Jerusalem to worship the king Yahweh the God of armies, the same will have no rain on them. 
18 And if the family of Egypt does not go up, and come not, they will have no rain on them. And there will a plague with which Yahweh will smite all the nations that do not come up to celebrate the feast of tabernacles. 
19 Thus will be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that do not come up to celebrate the feast of tabernacles. 
20 In that day it will be written on the bells of the horses, 'Holiness to Yahweh'. And the pots in the house of Yahweh will be like the bowls before the altar. 
21 Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh the God of armies. And all those who offer sacrifices will come and take them to cook meat in them. And in that day there will be no more merchants buying and selling things in the house of Yahweh the God of armies.
