1 In the eighth month of the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to the prophet Zechariah the son of Berechiah the son of Iddo in the following words. 
2 Yahweh has been very displeased with your fathers. 
3 Therefore say to them, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Return to me, says Yahweh the God of armies, and I will return to you, says Yahweh the God of armies. 
4 Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets had cried out by saying, 'Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: Turn away from your evil ways and from your evil deeds'. For they did not want to obey or to pay attention to me, says Yahweh. 
5 And now where are your fathers. And do the prophets live forever [in the flesh]. 
6 But concerning my words and my statutes which I commanded my servants the prophets, have they not reached your fathers [after I had done all the destruction that I did]. And they have turned and have said: Yahweh the God of armies has done to us as he had purposed to do, according to our ways and according to our doings. 
7 On the twenty fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to the prophet Zechariah the son of Berechiah the son of Iddo in the following words. 
8 I saw in [a vision] in the night, and behold, a man was riding on a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom. And behind him there were horses, speckled and white. 
9 Then I said, 'O my lord, what are these horses for'. And the angel who spoke with me said to me: I will show you what these horses are for. 
10 And the man who stood among the myrtle trees spoke and said: These are the ones whom Yahweh has sent to walk to and fro through the earth. 
11 And they spoke to the angel of Yahweh who was standing among the myrtle trees and said: We have walked to and fro through the earth, and behold, all the earth is quiet and at peace. 
12 Then the angel of Yahweh spoke and said: O Yahweh the God of armies, how long will you not have compassion on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry these seventy years. 
13 And Yahweh answered the angel who spoke with me with kind words and comfortable words. 
14 Then the angel who spoke with me said to me, Cry out and say, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy. 
15 And I am very angry with the proud nations. For I was only a little displeased, and they contributed to aggravate the affliction. 
16 Therefore thus says Yahweh: I will return to Jerusalem with compassion. My house will be rebuilt there, says Yahweh the God of armies, and the measuring line will be stretched over Jerusalem. 
17 Cry out again and say, Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: My cities will again be full of good things. Yahweh will again comfort Zion, and will again choose Jerusalem. 
18 Then I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, there were four horns.
19 And I said to the angel who spoke with me, 'What do these horns mean'. And he said to me: These are the horns that have scattered Judah, and Israel, and Jerusalem.
20 Then Yahweh showed me four smiths. 
21 And I said, 'What have they come to do'. And he spoke and said: These are the horns that have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head. And these smiths have come to terrify them [that is to say, to remove them from power], and to cut down the horns of the nations that have raised their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it. [Now the reason is not that they had acted in this way toward Judah, but the reason is that they should not continue to act in this way. And it seems that these are the events that have already begin to occur.]
