1 And he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him. [Now this Joshua is alive in the flesh on the day when Zechariah is having this vision, and he is the son of Jehozadak as it is mentioned by Haggai the prophet.] 
2 And Yahweh said to Satan: May Yahweh rebuke you, O Satan. Yes, may Yahweh who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this man like a burning stick plucked from the fire. 
3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and he was standing before the angel. 
4 Then the angel spoke and said to the other angels who were standing before him, 'Take off the filthy garments from Joshua'. And he said to Joshua: Behold I have taken away your iniquity, and I will clothe you with fine garments. 
5 And I said, 'Let them set a beautiful diadem on his head'. So they set a beautiful diadem on his head, and clothed him with garments, and the angel of Yahweh was standing there. 
6 And the angel of Yahweh spoke to Joshua and said the following thing. 
7 Thus says Yahweh the God of armies: If you walk in my ways, and keep my service, then you will judge my house [temple], and you will also keep my courtyards, and I will give you access among these [angels] who are standing here. 
8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your companions who are sitting [here] before you. For they are men who will serve as signs. For behold, I will bring forth my servant the Branch. 
9 For lo, concerning the stone that I have set before Joshua, there are seven eyes on this stone. And behold, I will engrave what is to be engraved on it, says Yahweh the God of armies, and I will take away the iniquity of this land in one day. [Now this was fulfilled on the day of the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth.] 
10 In that day, says Yahweh the God of armies, you will invite every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree. [Now it is said 'in that day' and not 'on that day', and the notion of day in the eyes of Yahweh is not trivial.]
