Piers Anthony 
P.O. Box 2289 
Inverness, FL 
34451-2289 USA

Dear Piers— I’ve enclosed a small container of symbols: my two cents, the whole cloth, and faith. Each one is a glyph of gratitude, stitched from your stories and my own. May they find you in good health and good humor… 

Also:  The Three of Cups card was printed twice in my new Tarot deck.  I took it as a sign: joy wants to be shared. So I’m sending the surplus to you—may it mark the friendships you’ve sparked, the stories you’ve spun, and the cups you’ve filled.

I know you have had the whole cloth all your life, and you've made your two cents known. The butterscotch is faith, unseen evidence of that which is hoped for. They cinnamon is cynicism. unseen evidence of what you dread. Use the burn of the cinnamon flavor to wear down the mountain and move it where you like. The spearmint is experiment. You have to taste it to understand. 

I am very thankful for the many books I read by you in my teenage years. The Xanth novels, (up to 13 or 17, I don't know) The Bio of a Space Tyrant (My dad was very sure to tell me that is not how women should be treated) The incarnations of immortality (maybe let me believe I might become one of them someday) the Kirlian Quest, (My Kirlian aura is only so-so. I only receive messsages through quantum entanglement resolution when I'm smoking weed (perhaps 3 or 4 times in my life), and most of those are absurd, like commercials. But sometimes, something true slips through e.g. "There is an uncountably infinite number of statements... little boxes about information. Most of them are false.") I also loved the Apprentice Adept series.

Anyway, these were greatly treasured memories from my teen years. I recall setting up a booth at Browning, IL flea-market, and silly-me, I put all my favorite books up for sale at a low low price. All of my greatest treasures were gone in a friendly exchange. I hope they were as much loved by the persons who bought them. Anyway, I've provided the "whole cloth" as microfiber. It might not be the Tabula Rasa that you can write on, but you can use it to clean your reading glasses, as I do. 
 
 Thank you so much for your treasures 
 The Advocate, 
 Jonathan David Doolin 
 ### ###### #####
---
Letter-Date: 2025-11-18
Sent-Date: 2025-11-19
Recipient: Piers Anthony
Original-Location: spaces/GospelHarmonization/chats/2025-11-18-Piers-Anthony.txt
Proposed-Location: archives/correspondence/2025-11-18-Piers-Anthony.txt
---
 #####
 
 P.S. I see you Pier Xanth(us)ony: 
 Talking horse of Achilles' chariot.
 Hera and Athena have given Tiresias back our eyes.
 