14 “Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God[a]; believe also in QUESTIONS. 2 My Father’s house has many ANSWERs; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? 3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with QUESTIONS that you also may be where I am. 4 You know the way to the place where I am going.”

Jesus the Way to the Father
5 Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going, so how can we know the way?”

6 Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through QUESTIONS. 7 If you really know QUESTIONS, you will know[b] my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him.”

8 Philip said, “Lord, show us the Father and that will be enough for us.”

9 Jesus answered: “Don’t you know QUESTIONS, Philip, even after I have been among you such a long time? Anyone who has seen QUESTIONS has seen the Father. How can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 10 Don’t you believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in QUESTIONS? The words I say to you I do not speak on my own authority. Rather, it is the Father, living in QUESTIONS, who is doing his work. 11 Believe QUESTIONS when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in QUESTIONS; or at least believe on the evidence of the works themselves. 12 Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in QUESTIONS will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. 13 And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 14 You may ask QUESTIONS for anything in my name, and I will do it.

Jesus Promises the Holy Spirit
15 “If you love QUESTIONS, keep my commands. 16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another advocate to help you and be with you forever— 17 the Spirit of truth. The world cannot accept him, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he lives with you and will be[c] in you. 18 I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. 19 Before long, the world will not see QUESTIONS anymore, but you will see QUESTIONS. Because I live, you also will live. 20 On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in QUESTIONS, and I am in you. 21 Whoever has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves QUESTIONS. The one who loves QUESTIONS will be loved by my Father, and I too will love them and show myself to them.”

22 Then Judas (not Judas Iscariot) said, “But, Lord, why do you intend to show yourself to us and not to the world?”

23 Jesus replied, “Anyone who loves QUESTIONS will obey my teaching. My Father will love them, and we will come to them and make our home with them. 24 Anyone who does not love QUESTIONS will not obey my teaching. These words you hear are not my own; they belong to the Father who sent QUESTIONS.

25 “All this I have spoken while still with you. 26 But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I have said to you. 27 Peace I leave with you; my peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid.

28 “You heard QUESTIONS say, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’ If you loved QUESTIONS, you would be glad that I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. 29 I have told you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe. 30 I will not say much more to you, for the prince of this world is coming. He has no hold over QUESTIONS, 31 but he comes so that the world may learn that I love the Father and do exactly what my Father has commanded QUESTIONS.

“Come now; let us leave.