Jesus Before the Sanhedrin
26:57 Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. 26:58 But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome.

26:59 The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. 26:60 But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward.

Finally two came forward 26:61 and declared, “This fellow said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.’”

26:62 Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, “Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you?” 26:63 But Jesus remained silent.

The high priest said to him, “I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Messiah, the Son of God.”

26:64 “You have said so,” Jesus replied. “But I say to all of you: From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven.”[e]

26:65 Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, “He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have heard the blasphemy. 26:66 What do you think?”

“He is worthy of death,” they answered.

26:67 Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him 26:68 and said, “Prophesy to us, Messiah. Who hit you?”

Peter Disowns Jesus
26:69 Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. “You also were with Jesus of Galilee,” she said.

26:70 But he denied it before them all. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said.

26:71 Then he went out to the gateway, where another servant girl saw him and said to the people there, “This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth.”

26:72 He denied it again, with an oath: “I don’t know the man!”

26:73 After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, “Surely you are one of them; your accent gives you away.”

26:74 Then he began to call down curses, and he swore to them, “I don’t know the man!”

Immediately a rooster crowed. 26:75 Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: “Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.” And he went outside and wept bitterly.