Introduction.
PARAGRAPH ONE:

A living being creates information.  It is legitimate to designate the living being by the information it creates.  A living being changes over time, under the effects of interactions.

An identity does not disappear on death.  The entity will have always have contributed to the events of its time, which then affect the events of the future.

One is present in the eternal, so long as one has contributed physically, or morally to the future.  One who has contributed to texts lives on in the texts.  One who has contributed to technology lives on in the technology.  One who contributes to carpentry lives on in the furniture and houses he creates.

This contribution we make to the future  by creating information is exactly the form of our heavenly body.

PARAGRAPH TWO:
Concept of hell:  to undergo a progressive eradication of one's presence in eternal life (that is, to be completely un-remembered) or to "leave a disgusting memory" (that is, to be remembered with contempt)

PARAGRAPH 3:  Where past meets future:
Case A: Inanimate interactions: Changes without Desire 
Case B: Living interactions
Case B1) Desires of well-being 
Case B2) Desire of compensation (moral or physical)
Case B3) Desire of purpose

PARAGRAPH 4:
State of mind is a superposition of desires with knowledge, either from communication or from innovation.  The universe contains all minds.

PARAGRAPH 5: 
The events caused by a person, and the memories about a person become an abstract concept that has an effect on the living.  (But memories do not count, see paragraph 7; only what we have actually done)

PARAGRAPH 6: 
"Holy Spirit" is a state of mind with a deep conviction for being well-intentioned toward (arbitrarily chosen) strangers in society.  Ordinary human beings do not have the Holy Spirit in them.  Sin is by definition willful or involuntary offence toward the Holy Spirit, and since men do not know the definition of Holy Spirit, they must sin.

PARAGRAPH 7
Obtain forgiveness, if possible, from those still alive or Holy Spirit cannot be indwelt.  Forgiveness does not mean forgetting/ignoring.  Acquisition of Holy Spirit changes the concerns and motivations.

Paragraph 8:
Anyone who has perfect understanding of the Holy Spirit, then sins, is guilty of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.  Works carried out under the influence of the Holy Spirit will endure forever.  (2 Kings 7:3-9 makes no sense here at all.  John 14:1-2 has the Father put you all in separate rooms)  

Motivation: John 6:29  --  Who has God sent?  The Jesus that left the last supper and went to Gennesaret, Sidon, Tyre, and Caesarea, or the Jesus that left the last supper and went to Capernaum, and Jerusalem?  Hint:  The "Sent" washes the Blind man's eyes with his spit, not with mud.  The "Sent" says in Sidon, "I was sent after the lost sheep of Jerusalem."  

Searching for the God of Scientists:
Question:  "Does a scientist have the right to seek the purpose of life through one's specialty or some source of information?"

Experiment allows a scientist to reject what is not consistent with their hypothesis.

Biblical Definition of Faith, from Paul "Faith is the evidence of what is hoped for, but not seen."

Definition on Page 5:  Proposition P:  "The truth is the light of men"

Is proposition P disprovable?  Is there an experiment one can do that proves it false?  One could look up "truth" in the dictionary, and find out if that is the actual definition.  However, what one finds in the dictionary is circular.  Truth is "That which is true."  Is "the light of men" more or less vague?

However, science aspires to find truth, through the process called "The Scientific Method".  Science does not boast, though.  Science calls "theory" an "idea which has not yet been disproven", and calls "hypothesis" an "idea which has not been tested."  

Blaspheming the Spirit of Truth:  "The one who blasphemes is the one who falsifies the interpretation of the process... with the sole purpose of promoting a certain theory."  

Note from Jonathan Doolin:  John 20 contains two important verses in regards to this idea.  John 20:29 gives a statement that is consistent with the concept of faith, but not with the scientific method.  John 20:22-23 gives a statement that is consistent with the truth, but not with a spirit of forgiveness, which Jesus *requires* in the other three gospels.  

Amazing that for 2 or 5 thousand years no one could come to the conclusion Cretan Brut *sometimes* lies!

PAGE 6; FIRST FULL PARAGRAPH
While it is possible that the person introducing a paradox is mad, it is also possible that you do not know his meaning.  Surely when Heraclitus said "all things are one" he did not mean there was no distinction between horses and cows.  But he did mean that the material that makes us all is the same stuff.

PAGE 10:
"It is not a question of proving the historicity of the events presented, but of observing that they are instructive for the understanding..."

Question:  If I say that God exists and that righteousness and fairness are his only will in the life of men, then how have I offended knowledge?

The difficulty here is that when reading the Bible, a lot of people have empathy for the victims of God.  When God tells the Jews to either put them into slavery, or put them to the sword, they react as though God had given them that choice.  When the idol of jealousy tells Ezekiel on 6/5/6 to put the mark of the beast on the people who lament "the detestable things" what you have to understand is that people of good conscience DO NOT LAMENT the things that the idol detests.  We do not lament the portrayal of bugs on the walls.  (Ezekiel 8:10)  We do not lament the odor of incense (Ezekiel 8:11)  We do not lament the women mourning Tammuz (Ezekiel 8:14)  We do not lament men bowing to the sun in the east (Ezekiel 8:16)  We do not lament putting a branch to your nose (Ezekiel 8:17).  

When the man in linen comes out to ask if we lament these things, on 6/6/6, we do not accept his mark on our foreheads.  We can tell the difference between God, who promotes real righteousness, and fairness, and the idol of jealousy who promotes self-righteousness, and wrath.

Unfortunately, there is a lot of identity confusion in your texts in regards to who is God, and who is the idol of jealousy, and this is our main trouble with Christians and Jews and Muslims, that they don't make the distinction, and furthermore, Jesus hasn't yet seemed to help them all figure it out yet.

