Luke 23:11 says it was Herod who changed Jesus into the purple robe (but no crown of thorns), John 19:1 says it was Pilate who changed him, and they crucified the man wearing the purple robe, and the crown of thorns. Matt  27:29 and Mark 15:17 says they decided who to crucify BEFORE Jesus was put into robe and crown of thorns.  I believe Luke, that one of the Jesus's was dressed in purple BEFORE the choice was given, and  the other was dressed, AFTER the choice was given.  The man with the crown of thorns could not see to carry his cross for the blood in his eyes.  And the people could not see who they were crucifying because of the blood dripping down his face, and he went out at 9 in the morning.  The guy that COULD see was still being tried at noon, and he carried his own cross, and only has one witness that he really died. 

My thought is Herod and Pilate really disliked Barabbas.  But they liked Jesus of Nazareth.  And they really didn't mind tricking all those people that wanted to crucify the wrong one.  




















3:7 Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the lake, and a large crowd from Galilee followed. 3:8 When they heard about all he was doing, many people came to him from Judea, Jerusalem, Idumea, and the regions across the Jordan and around Tyre and Sidon. 3:9 Because of the crowd he told his disciples to have a small boat ready for him, to keep the people from crowding him. 3:10 For he had healed many, so that those with diseases were pushing forward to touch him. 3:11 Whenever the impure spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, “You are the Son of God.” 3:12 But he gave them strict orders not to tell others about him.

Jesus Appoints the Twelve
3:13 Jesus went up on a mountainside and called to him those he wanted, and they came to him. 3:14 He appointed twelve[j] that they might be with him and that he might send them out to preach 3:15 and to have authority to drive out demons. 3:16 These are the twelve he appointed: Simon (to whom he gave the name Peter), 3:17 James son of Zebedee and his brother John (to them he gave the name Boanerges, which means “sons of thunder”), 3:18 Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.

Jesus Accused by His Family and by Teachers of the Law
3:20 Then Jesus entered a house, and again a crowd gathered, so that he and his disciples were not even able to eat. 3:21 When his family[k] heard about this, they went to take charge of him, for they said, “He is out of his mind.”

3:22 And the teachers of the law who came down from Jerusalem said, “He is possessed by Beelzebul! By the prince of demons he is driving out demons.”

3:23 So Jesus called them over to him and began to speak to them in parables: “How can Satan drive out Satan? 3:24 If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 3:25 If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. 3:26 And if Satan opposes himself and is divided, he cannot stand; his end has come. 3:27 In fact, no one can enter a strong man’s house without first tying him up. Then he can plunder the strong man’s house. 3:28 Truly I tell you, people can be forgiven all their sins and every slander they utter, 3:29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven; they are guilty of an eternal sin.”

3:30 He said this because they were saying, “He has an impure spirit.”

3:31 Then Jesus’ mother and brothers arrived. Standing outside, they sent someone in to call him. 3:32 A crowd was sitting around him, and they told him, “Your mother and brothers are outside looking for you.”

3:33 “Who are my mother and my brothers?” he asked.

3:34 Then he looked at those seated in a circle around him and said, “Here are my mother and my brothers! 3:35 Whoever does God’s will is my brother and sister and mother.”

4 Again Jesus began to teach by the lake. The crowd that gathered around him was so large that he got into a boat and sat in it out on the lake, while all the people were along the shore at the water’s edge. 4:2 He taught them many things by parables, and in his teaching said: 4:3 “Listen! A farmer went out to sow his seed. 4:4 As he was scattering the seed, some fell along the path, and the birds came and ate it up. 4:5 Some fell on rocky places, where it did not have much soil. It sprang up quickly, because the soil was shallow. 4:6 But when the sun came up, the plants were scorched, and they withered because they had no root. 4:7 Other seed fell among thorns, which grew up and choked the plants, so that they did not bear grain. 4:8 Still other seed fell on good soil. It came up, grew and produced a crop, some multiplying thirty, some sixty, some a hundred times.”

4:9 Then Jesus said, “Whoever has ears to hear, let them hear.”

4:10 When he was alone, the Twelve and the others around him asked him about the parables. 4:11 He told them, “The secret of the kingdom of God has been given to you. But to those on the outside everything is said in parables 4:12 so that,

“‘they may be ever seeing but never perceiving,
    and ever hearing but never understanding;
otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!’[a]”

4:13 Then Jesus said to them, “Don’t you understand this parable? How then will you understand any parable? 4:14 The farmer sows the word. 4:15 Some people are like seed along the path, where the word is sown. As soon as they hear it, Satan comes and takes away the word that was sown in them. 4:16 Others, like seed sown on rocky places, hear the word and at once receive it with joy. 4:17 But since they have no root, they last only a short time. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, they quickly fall away. 4:18 Still others, like seed sown among thorns, hear the word; 4:19 but the worries of this life, the deceitfulness of wealth and the desires for other things come in and choke the word, making it unfruitful. 4:20 Others, like seed sown on good soil, hear the word, accept it, and produce a crop—some thirty, some sixty, some a hundred times what was sown.”

A Lamp on a Stand
4:21 He said to them, “Do you bring in a lamp to put it under a bowl or a bed? Instead, don’t you put it on its stand? 4:22 For whatever is hidden is meant to be disclosed, and whatever is concealed is meant to be brought out into the open. 4:23 If anyone has ears to hear, let them hear.”

4:24 “Consider carefully what you hear,” he continued. “With the measure you use, it will be measured to you—and even more. 4:25 Whoever has will be given more; whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them.”

The Parable of the Growing Seed
4:26 He also said, “This is what the kingdom of God is like. A man scatters seed on the ground. 4:27 Night and day, whether he sleeps or gets up, the seed sprouts and grows, though he does not know how. 4:28 All by itself the soil produces grain—first the stalk, then the head, then the full kernel in the head. 4:29 As soon as the grain is ripe, he puts the sickle to it, because the harvest has come.”

The Parable of the Mustard Seed
4:30 Again he said, “What shall we say the kingdom of God is like, or what parable shall we use to describe it? 4:31 It is like a mustard seed, which is the smallest of all seeds on earth. 4:32 Yet when planted, it grows and becomes the largest of all garden plants, with such big branches that the birds can perch in its shade.”

4:33 With many similar parables Jesus spoke the word to them, as much as they could understand. 4:34 He did not say anything to them without using a parable. But when he was alone with his own disciples, he explained everything.

Jesus Calms the Storm
4:35 That day when evening came, he said to his disciples, “Let us go over to the other side.” 4:36 Leaving the crowd behind, they took him along, just as he was, in the boat. There were also other boats with him. 4:37 A furious squall came up, and the waves broke over the boat, so that it was nearly swamped. 4:38 Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion. The disciples woke him and said to him, “Teacher, don’t you care if we drown?”

4:39 He got up, rebuked the wind and said to the waves, “Quiet! Be still!” Then the wind died down and it was completely calm.

4:40 He said to his disciples, “Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith?”

4:41 They were terrified and asked each other, “Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him!”

Jesus Restores a Demon-Possessed Man
5:1 They went across the lake to the region of the Gerasenes.[b] 5:2 When Jesus got out of the boat, a man with an impure spirit came from the tombs to meet him. 5:3 This man lived in the tombs, and no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain. 5:4 For he had often been chained hand and foot, but he tore the chains apart and broke the irons on his feet. No one was strong enough to subdue him. 5:5 Night and day among the tombs and in the hills he would cry out and cut himself with stones.

5:6 When he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and fell on his knees in front of him. 5:7 He shouted at the top of his voice, “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? In God’s name don’t torture me!” 5:8 For Jesus had said to him, “Come out of this man, you impure spirit!”

5:9 Then Jesus asked him, “What is your name?”

“My name is Legion,” he replied, “for we are many.” 5:10 And he begged Jesus again and again not to send them out of the area.

5:11 A large herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside. 5:12 The demons begged Jesus, “Send us among the pigs; allow us to go into them.” 5:13 He gave them permission, and the impure spirits came out and went into the pigs. The herd, about two thousand in number, rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned.

5:14 Those tending the pigs ran off and reported this in the town and countryside, and the people went out to see what had happened. 5:15 When they came to Jesus, they saw the man who had been possessed by the legion of demons, sitting there, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. 5:16 Those who had seen it told the people what had happened to the demon-possessed man—and told about the pigs as well. 5:17 Then the people began to plead with Jesus to leave their region.

5:18 As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed begged to go with him. 5:19 Jesus did not let him, but said, “Go home to your own people and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.” 5:20 So the man went away and began to tell in the Decapolis[c] how much Jesus had done for him. And all the people were amazed.

Jesus Raises a Dead Girl and Heals a Sick Woman
5:21 When Jesus had again crossed over by boat to the other side of the lake, a large crowd gathered around him while he was by the lake. 5:22 Then one of the synagogue leaders, named Jairus, came, and when he saw Jesus, he fell at his feet. 5:23 He pleaded earnestly with him, “My little daughter is dying. Please come and put your hands on her so that she will be healed and live.” 5:24 So Jesus went with him.

A large crowd followed and pressed around him. 5:25 And a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years. 5:26 She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors and had spent all she had, yet instead of getting better she grew worse. 5:27 When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his cloak, 5:28 because she thought, “If I just touch his clothes, I will be healed.” 5:29 Immediately her bleeding stopped and she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering.

5:30 At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from him. He turned around in the crowd and asked, “Who touched my clothes?”

5:31 “You see the people crowding against you,” his disciples answered, “and yet you can ask, ‘Who touched me?’ ”

5:32 But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it. 5:33 Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at his feet and, trembling with fear, told him the whole truth. 5:34 He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering.”

5:35 While Jesus was still speaking, some people came from the house of Jairus, the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” they said. “Why bother the teacher anymore?”

5:36 Overhearing[d] what they said, Jesus told him, “Don’t be afraid; just believe.”

5:37 He did not let anyone follow him except Peter, James and John the brother of James. 5:38 When they came to the home of the synagogue leader, Jesus saw a commotion, with people crying and wailing loudly. 5:39 He went in and said to them, “Why all this commotion and wailing? The child is not dead but asleep.” 5:40 But they laughed at him.

After he put them all out, he took the child’s father and mother and the disciples who were with him, and went in where the child was. 5:41 He took her by the hand and said to her, “Talitha koum!” (which means “Little girl, I say to you, get up!”). 5:42 Immediately the girl stood up and began to walk around (she was twelve years old). At this they were completely astonished. 5:43 He gave strict orders not to let anyone know about this, and told them to give her something to eat.

A Prophet Without Honor
6 Jesus left there and went to his hometown, accompanied by his disciples. 6:2 When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were amazed.

“Where did this man get these things?” they asked. “What’s this wisdom that has been given him? What are these remarkable miracles he is performing? 6:3 Isn’t this the carpenter? Isn’t this Mary’s son and the brother of James, Joseph,[e] Judas and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” And they took offense at him.

6:4 Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his own town, among his relatives and in his own home.” 6:5 He could not do any miracles there, except lay his hands on a few sick people and heal them. 6:6 He was amazed at their lack of faith.

Jesus Sends Out the Twelve
Then Jesus went around teaching from village to village. 6:7 Calling the Twelve to him, he began to send them out two by two and gave them authority over impure spirits.

6:8 These were his instructions: “Take nothing for the journey except a staff—no bread, no bag, no money in your belts. 6:9 Wear sandals but not an extra shirt. 6:10 Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that town. 6:11 And if any place will not welcome you or listen to you, leave that place and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.”

6:12 They went out and preached that people should repent. 6:13 They drove out many demons and anointed many sick people with oil and healed them.

John the Baptist Beheaded
6:14 King Herod heard about this, for Jesus’ name had become well known. Some were saying,[f] “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him.”

6:15 Others said, “He is Elijah.”

And still others claimed, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of long ago.”

6:16 But when Herod heard this, he said, “John, whom I beheaded, has been raised from the dead!”

6:17 For Herod himself had given orders to have John arrested, and he had him bound and put in prison. He did this because of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, whom he had married. 6:18 For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.” 6:19 So Herodias nursed a grudge against John and wanted to kill him. But she was not able to, 6:20 because Herod feared John and protected him, knowing him to be a righteous and holy man. When Herod heard John, he was greatly puzzled[g]; yet he liked to listen to him.

6:21 Finally the opportune time came. On his birthday Herod gave a banquet for his high officials and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee. 6:22 When the daughter of[h] Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his dinner guests.

The king said to the girl, “Ask me for anything you want, and I’ll give it to you.” 6:23 And he promised her with an oath, “Whatever you ask I will give you, up to half my kingdom.”

6:24 She went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask for?”

“The head of John the Baptist,” she answered.

6:25 At once the girl hurried in to the king with the request: “I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptist on a platter.”

6:26 The king was greatly distressed, but because of his oaths and his dinner guests, he did not want to refuse her. 6:27 So he immediately sent an executioner with orders to bring John’s head. The man went, beheaded John in the prison, 6:28 and brought back his head on a platter. He presented it to the girl, and she gave it to her mother. 6:29 On hearing of this, John’s disciples came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.

Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand
6:30 The apostles gathered around Jesus and reported to him all they had done and taught. 6:31 Then, because so many people were coming and going that they did not even have a chance to eat, he said to them, “Come with me by yourselves to a quiet place and get some rest.”

6:32 So they went away by themselves in a boat to a solitary place. 6:33 But many who saw them leaving recognized them and ran on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. 6:34 When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So he began teaching them many things.

6:35 By this time it was late in the day, so his disciples came to him. “This is a remote place,” they said, “and it’s already very late. 6:36 Send the people away so that they can go to the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”

6:37 But he answered, “You give them something to eat.”

They said to him, “That would take more than half a year’s wages[i]! Are we to go and spend that much on bread and give it to them to eat?”

6:38 “How many loaves do you have?” he asked. “Go and see.”

When they found out, they said, “Five—and two fish.”

6:39 Then Jesus directed them to have all the people sit down in groups on the green grass. 6:40 So they sat down in groups of hundreds and fifties. 6:41 Taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke the loaves. Then he gave them to his disciples to distribute to the people. He also divided the two fish among them all. 6:42 They all ate and were satisfied, 6:43 and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces of bread and fish. 6:44 The number of the men who had eaten was five thousand.

Jesus Walks on the Water
6:45 Immediately Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd. 6:46 After leaving them, he went up on a mountainside to pray.

6:47 Later that night, the boat was in the middle of the lake, and he was alone on land. 6:48 He saw the disciples straining at the oars, because the wind was against them. Shortly before dawn he went out to them, walking on the lake. He was about to pass by them, 6:49 but when they saw him walking on the lake, they thought he was a ghost. They cried out, 6:50 because they all saw him and were terrified.

Immediately he spoke to them and said, “Take courage! It is I. Don’t be afraid.” 6:51 Then he climbed into the boat with them, and the wind died down. They were completely amazed, 6:52 for they had not understood about the loaves; their hearts were hardened.

6:53 When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret and anchored there. 6:54 As soon as they got out of the boat, people recognized Jesus. 6:55 They ran throughout that whole region and carried the sick on mats to wherever they heard he was. 6:56 And wherever he went—into villages, towns or countryside—they placed the sick in the marketplaces. They begged him to let them touch even the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed.

7 The Pharisees and some of the teachers of the law who had come from Jerusalem gathered around Jesus 7:2 and saw some of his disciples eating food with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. 7:3 (The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they give their hands a ceremonial washing, holding to the tradition of the elders. 7:4 When they come from the marketplace they do not eat unless they wash. And they observe many other traditions, such as the washing of cups, pitchers and kettles.[a])

7:5 So the Pharisees and teachers of the law asked Jesus, “Why don’t your disciples live according to the tradition of the elders instead of eating their food with defiled hands?”

7:6 He replied, “Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you hypocrites; as it is written:

“‘These people honor me with their lips,
    but their hearts are far from me.
7:7 They worship me in vain;
    their teachings are merely human rules.’[b]

7:8 You have let go of the commands of God and are holding on to human traditions.”

7:9 And he continued, “You have a fine way of setting aside the commands of God in order to observe[c] your own traditions! 7:10 For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and mother,’[d] and, ‘Anyone who curses their father or mother is to be put to death.’[e] 7:11 But you say that if anyone declares that what might have been used to help their father or mother is Corban (that is, devoted to God)— 7:12 then you no longer let them do anything for their father or mother. 7:13 Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like that.”

7:14 Again Jesus called the crowd to him and said, “Listen to me, everyone, and understand this. 7:15 Nothing outside a person can defile them by going into them. Rather, it is what comes out of a person that defiles them.” [16] [f]

7:17 After he had left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about this parable. 7:18 “Are you so dull?” he asked. “Don’t you see that nothing that enters a person from the outside can defile them? 7:19 For it doesn’t go into their heart but into their stomach, and then out of the body.” (In saying this, Jesus declared all foods clean.)

7:20 He went on: “What comes out of a person is what defiles them. 7:21 For it is from within, out of a person’s heart, that evil thoughts come—sexual immorality, theft, murder, 7:22 adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance and folly. 7:23 All these evils come from inside and defile a person.”

Jesus Honors a Syrophoenician Woman’s Faith
7:24 Jesus left that place and went to the vicinity of Tyre.[g] He entered a house and did not want anyone to know it; yet he could not keep his presence secret. 7:25 In fact, as soon as she heard about him, a woman whose little daughter was possessed by an impure spirit came and fell at his feet. 7:26 The woman was a Greek, born in Syrian Phoenicia. She begged Jesus to drive the demon out of her daughter.

7:27 “First let the children eat all they want,” he told her, “for it is not right to take the children’s bread and toss it to the dogs.”

7:28 “Lord,” she replied, “even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”

7:29 Then he told her, “For such a reply, you may go; the demon has left your daughter.”

7:30 She went home and found her child lying on the bed, and the demon gone.

Jesus Heals a Deaf and Mute Man
7:31 Then Jesus left the vicinity of Tyre and went through Sidon, down to the Sea of Galilee and into the region of the Decapolis.[h] 7:32 There some people brought to him a man who was deaf and could hardly talk, and they begged Jesus to place his hand on him.

7:33 After he took him aside, away from the crowd, Jesus put his fingers into the man’s ears. Then he spit and touched the man’s tongue. 7:34 He looked up to heaven and with a deep sigh said to him, “Ephphatha!” (which means “Be opened!”). 7:35 At this, the man’s ears were opened, his tongue was loosened and he began to speak plainly.

7:36 Jesus commanded them not to tell anyone. But the more he did so, the more they kept talking about it. 7:37 People were overwhelmed with amazement. “He has done everything well,” they said. “He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.”

Jesus Feeds the Four Thousand
8 During those days another large crowd gathered. Since they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him and said, 8:2 “I have compassion for these people; they have already been with me three days and have nothing to eat. 8:3 If I send them home hungry, they will collapse on the way, because some of them have come a long distance.”

8:4 His disciples answered, “But where in this remote place can anyone get enough bread to feed them?”

8:5 “How many loaves do you have?” Jesus asked.

“Seven,” they replied.

8:6 He told the crowd to sit down on the ground. When he had taken the seven loaves and given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to distribute to the people, and they did so. 8:7 They had a few small fish as well; he gave thanks for them also and told the disciples to distribute them. 8:8 The people ate and were satisfied. Afterward the disciples picked up seven basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over. 8:9 About four thousand were present. After he had sent them away, 8:10 he got into the boat with his disciples and went to the region of Dalmanutha.

8:11 The Pharisees came and began to question Jesus. To test him, they asked him for a sign from heaven. 8:12 He sighed deeply and said, “Why does this generation ask for a sign? Truly I tell you, no sign will be given to it.” 8:13 Then he left them, got back into the boat and crossed to the other side.

The Yeast of the Pharisees and Herod
8:14 The disciples had forgotten to bring bread, except for one loaf they had with them in the boat. 8:15 “Be careful,” Jesus warned them. “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and that of Herod.”

8:16 They discussed this with one another and said, “It is because we have no bread.”

8:17 Aware of their discussion, Jesus asked them: “Why are you talking about having no bread? Do you still not see or understand? Are your hearts hardened? 8:18 Do you have eyes but fail to see, and ears but fail to hear? And don’t you remember? 8:19 When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many basketfuls of pieces did you pick up?”

“Twelve,” they replied.

8:20 “And when I broke the seven loaves for the four thousand, how many basketfuls of pieces did you pick up?”

They answered, “Seven.”

8:21 He said to them, “Do you still not understand?”

Jesus Heals a Blind Man at Bethsaida
8:22 They came to Bethsaida, and some people brought a blind man and begged Jesus to touch him. 8:23 He took the blind man by the hand and led him outside the village. When he had spit on the man’s eyes and put his hands on him, Jesus asked, “Do you see anything?”

8:24 He looked up and said, “I see people; they look like trees walking around.”

8:25 Once more Jesus put his hands on the man’s eyes. Then his eyes were opened, his sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. 8:26 Jesus sent him home, saying, “Don’t even go into[i] the village.”

Peter Declares That Jesus Is the Messiah
8:27 Jesus and his disciples went on to the villages around Caesarea Philippi. On the way he asked them, “Who do people say I am?”

8:28 They replied, “Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and still others, one of the prophets.”

8:29 “But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”

Peter answered, “You are the Messiah.”

8:30 Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about him.

Jesus Predicts His Death
8:31 He then began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and that he must be killed and after three days rise again. 8:32 He spoke plainly about this, and Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.

8:33 But when Jesus turned and looked at his disciples, he rebuked Peter. “Get behind me, Satan!” he said. “You do not have in mind the concerns of God, but merely human concerns.”

The Way of the Cross
8:34 Then he called the crowd to him along with his disciples and said: “Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me. 8:35 For whoever wants to save their life[j] will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me and for the gospel will save it. 8:36 What good is it for someone to gain the whole world, yet forfeit their soul? 8:37 Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul? 8:38 If anyone is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his Father’s glory with the holy angels.”

9 And he said to them, “Truly I tell you, some who are standing here will not taste death before they see that the kingdom of God has come with power.”

The Transfiguration
9:2 After six days Jesus took Peter, James and John with him and led them up a high mountain, where they were all alone. There he was transfigured before them. 9:3 His clothes became dazzling white, whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them. 9:4 And there appeared before them Elijah and Moses, who were talking with Jesus.

9:5 Peter said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters—one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.” 9:6 (He did not know what to say, they were so frightened.)

9:7 Then a cloud appeared and covered them, and a voice came from the cloud: “This is my Son, whom I love. Listen to him!”

9:8 Suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus.

9:9 As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus gave them orders not to tell anyone what they had seen until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. 9:10 They kept the matter to themselves, discussing what “rising from the dead” meant.

9:11 And they asked him, “Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah must come first?”

9:12 Jesus replied, “To be sure, Elijah does come first, and restores all things. Why then is it written that the Son of Man must suffer much and be rejected? 9:13 But I tell you, Elijah has come, and they have done to him everything they wished, just as it is written about him.”

Jesus Heals a Boy Possessed by an Impure Spirit
9:14 When they came to the other disciples, they saw a large crowd around them and the teachers of the law arguing with them. 9:15 As soon as all the people saw Jesus, they were overwhelmed with wonder and ran to greet him.

9:16 “What are you arguing with them about?” he asked.

9:17 A man in the crowd answered, “Teacher, I brought you my son, who is possessed by a spirit that has robbed him of speech. 9:18 Whenever it seizes him, it throws him to the ground. He foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth and becomes rigid. I asked your disciples to drive out the spirit, but they could not.”

9:19 “You unbelieving generation,” Jesus replied, “how long shall I stay with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring the boy to me.”

9:20 So they brought him. When the spirit saw Jesus, it immediately threw the boy into a convulsion. He fell to the ground and rolled around, foaming at the mouth.

9:21 Jesus asked the boy’s father, “How long has he been like this?”

“From childhood,” he answered. 9:22 “It has often thrown him into fire or water to kill him. But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us.”

9:23 “‘If you can’?” said Jesus. “Everything is possible for one who believes.”

9:24 Immediately the boy’s father exclaimed, “I do believe; help me overcome my unbelief!”

9:25 When Jesus saw that a crowd was running to the scene, he rebuked the impure spirit. “You deaf and mute spirit,” he said, “I command you, come out of him and never enter him again.”

9:26 The spirit shrieked, convulsed him violently and came out. The boy looked so much like a corpse that many said, “He’s dead.” 9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him to his feet, and he stood up.

9:28 After Jesus had gone indoors, his disciples asked him privately, “Why couldn’t we drive it out?”

9:29 He replied, “This kind can come out only by prayer.[k]”

Jesus Predicts His Death a Second Time
9:30 They left that place and passed through Galilee. Jesus did not want anyone to know where they were, 9:31 because he was teaching his disciples. He said to them, “The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men. They will kill him, and after three days he will rise.” 9:32 But they did not understand what he meant and were afraid to ask him about it.

9:33 They came to Capernaum. When he was in the house, he asked them, “What were you arguing about on the road?” 9:34 But they kept quiet because on the way they had argued about who was the greatest.

9:35 Sitting down, Jesus called the Twelve and said, “Anyone who wants to be first must be the very last, and the servant of all.”

9:36 He took a little child whom he placed among them. Taking the child in his arms, he said to them, 9:37 “Whoever welcomes one of these little children in my name welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me does not welcome me but the one who sent me.”

Whoever Is Not Against Us Is for Us
9:38 “Teacher,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name and we told him to stop, because he was not one of us.”

9:39 “Do not stop him,” Jesus said. “For no one who does a miracle in my name can in the next moment say anything bad about me, 9:40 for whoever is not against us is for us. 9:41 Truly I tell you, anyone who gives you a cup of water in my name because you belong to the Messiah will certainly not lose their reward.

Causing to Stumble
9:42 “If anyone causes one of these little ones—those who believe in me—to stumble, it would be better for them if a large millstone were hung around their neck and they were thrown into the sea. 9:43 If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go into hell, where the fire never goes out. [44] [l] 9:45 And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than to have two feet and be thrown into hell. [46] [m] 9:47 And if your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell, 9:48 where

“‘the worms that eat them do not die,
    and the fire is not quenched.’[n]

9:49 Everyone will be salted with fire.

9:50 “Salt is good, but if it loses its saltiness, how can you make it salty again? Have salt among yourselves, and be at peace with each other.”

10 Jesus then left that place and went into the region of Judea and across the Jordan. Again crowds of people came to him, and as was his custom, he taught them.

10:2 Some Pharisees came and tested him by asking, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”

10:3 “What did Moses command you?” he replied.

10:4 They said, “Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and send her away.”

10:5 “It was because your hearts were hard that Moses wrote you this law,” Jesus replied. 10:6 “But at the beginning of creation God ‘made them male and female.’[a] 10:7 ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife,[b] 10:8 and the two will become one flesh.’[c] So they are no longer two, but one flesh. 10:9 Therefore what God has joined together, let no one separate.”

10:10 When they were in the house again, the disciples asked Jesus about this. 10:11 He answered, “Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her. 10:12 And if she divorces her husband and marries another man, she commits adultery.”

The Little Children and Jesus
10:13 People were bringing little children to Jesus for him to place his hands on them, but the disciples rebuked them. 10:14 When Jesus saw this, he was indignant. He said to them, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. 10:15 Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.” 10:16 And he took the children in his arms, placed his hands on them and blessed them.

The Rich and the Kingdom of God
10:17 As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. “Good teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to inherit eternal life?”

10:18 “Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good—except God alone. 10:19 You know the commandments: ‘You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, you shall not defraud, honor your father and mother.’[d]”

10:20 “Teacher,” he declared, “all these I have kept since I was a boy.”

10:21 Jesus looked at him and loved him. “One thing you lack,” he said. “Go, sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”

10:22 At this the man’s face fell. He went away sad, because he had great wealth.

10:23 Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, “How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God!”

10:24 The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said again, “Children, how hard it is[e] to enter the kingdom of God! 10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”

10:26 The disciples were even more amazed, and said to each other, “Who then can be saved?”

10:27 Jesus looked at them and said, “With man this is impossible, but not with God; all things are possible with God.”

10:28 Then Peter spoke up, “We have left everything to follow you!”

10:29 “Truly I tell you,” Jesus replied, “no one who has left home or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me and the gospel 10:30 will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age: homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children and fields—along with persecutions—and in the age to come eternal life. 10:31 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”

Jesus Predicts His Death a Third Time
10:32 They were on their way up to Jerusalem, with Jesus leading the way, and the disciples were astonished, while those who followed were afraid. Again he took the Twelve aside and told them what was going to happen to him. 10:33 “We are going up to Jerusalem,” he said, “and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles, 10:34 who will mock him and spit on him, flog him and kill him. Three days later he will rise.”

The Request of James and John
10:35 Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him. “Teacher,” they said, “we want you to do for us whatever we ask.”

10:36 “What do you want me to do for you?” he asked.

10:37 They replied, “Let one of us sit at your right and the other at your left in your glory.”

10:38 “You don’t know what you are asking,” Jesus said. “Can you drink the cup I drink or be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with?”

10:39 “We can,” they answered.

Jesus said to them, “You will drink the cup I drink and be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with, 10:40 but to sit at my right or left is not for me to grant. These places belong to those for whom they have been prepared.”

10:41 When the ten heard about this, they became indignant with James and John. 10:42 Jesus called them together and said, “You know that those who are regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their high officials exercise authority over them. 10:43 Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, 10:44 and whoever wants to be first must be slave of all. 10:45 For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”

Blind Bartimaeus Receives His Sight
10:46 Then they came to Jericho. As Jesus and his disciples, together with a large crowd, were leaving the city, a blind man, Bartimaeus (which means “son of Timaeus”), was sitting by the roadside begging. 10:47 When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to shout, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”

10:48 Many rebuked him and told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”

10:49 Jesus stopped and said, “Call him.”

So they called to the blind man, “Cheer up! On your feet! He’s calling you.” 10:50 Throwing his cloak aside, he jumped to his feet and came to Jesus.

10:51 “What do you want me to do for you?” Jesus asked him.

The blind man said, “Rabbi, I want to see.”

10:52 “Go,” said Jesus, “your faith has healed you.” Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus along the road.

Jesus Comes to Jerusalem as King
11 As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, 10:2 saying to them, “Go to the village ahead of you, and just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. Untie it and bring it here. 10:3 If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say, ‘The Lord needs it and will send it back here shortly.’”

10:4 They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied at a doorway. As they untied it, 10:5 some people standing there asked, “What are you doing, untying that colt?” 10:6 They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go. 10:7 When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. 10:8 Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. 10:9 Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted,

“Hosanna![f]”

“Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!”[g]

10:10 “Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!”

“Hosanna in the highest heaven!”

10:11 Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courts. He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the Twelve.

Jesus Curses a Fig Tree and Clears the Temple Courts
10:12 The next day as they were leaving Bethany, Jesus was hungry. 10:13 Seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to find out if it had any fruit. When he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, because it was not the season for figs. 10:14 Then he said to the tree, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again.” And his disciples heard him say it.

10:15 On reaching Jerusalem, Jesus entered the temple courts and began driving out those who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves, 10:16 and would not allow anyone to carry merchandise through the temple courts. 10:17 And as he taught them, he said, “Is it not written: ‘My house will be called a house of prayer for all nations’[h]? But you have made it ‘a den of robbers.’[i]”

10:18 The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard this and began looking for a way to kill him, for they feared him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching.

10:19 When evening came, Jesus and his disciples[j] went out of the city.

10:20 In the morning, as they went along, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots. 10:21 Peter remembered and said to Jesus, “Rabbi, look! The fig tree you cursed has withered!”

10:22 “Have faith in God,” Jesus answered. 10:23 “Truly[k] I tell you, if anyone says to this mountain, ‘Go, throw yourself into the sea,’ and does not doubt in their heart but believes that what they say will happen, it will be done for them. 10:24 Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. 10:25 And when you stand praying, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive them, so that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins.” [26] [l]

The Authority of Jesus Questioned
10:27 They arrived again in Jerusalem, and while Jesus was walking in the temple courts, the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders came to him. 10:28 “By what authority are you doing these things?” they asked. “And who gave you authority to do this?”

10:29 Jesus replied, “I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things. 10:30 John’s baptism—was it from heaven, or of human origin? Tell me!”

10:31 They discussed it among themselves and said, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask, ‘Then why didn’t you believe him?’ 10:32 But if we say, ‘Of human origin’ …” (They feared the people, for everyone held that John really was a prophet.)

10:33 So they answered Jesus, “We don’t know.”

Jesus said, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I am doing these things.”

The Parable of the Tenants
12 Jesus then began to speak to them in parables: “A man planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it, dug a pit for the winepress and built a watchtower. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and moved to another place. 11:2 At harvest time he sent a servant to the tenants to collect from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. 11:3 But they seized him, beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 11:4 Then he sent another servant to them; they struck this man on the head and treated him shamefully. 11:5 He sent still another, and that one they killed. He sent many others; some of them they beat, others they killed.

11:6 “He had one left to send, a son, whom he loved. He sent him last of all, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’

11:7 “But the tenants said to one another, ‘This is the heir. Come, let’s kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’ 11:8 So they took him and killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard.

11:9 “What then will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and kill those tenants and give the vineyard to others. 11:10 Haven’t you read this passage of Scripture:

“‘The stone the builders rejected
    has become the cornerstone;
11:11 the Lord has done this,
    and it is marvelous in our eyes’[m]?”

11:12 Then the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders looked for a way to arrest him because they knew he had spoken the parable against them. But they were afraid of the crowd; so they left him and went away.

Paying the Imperial Tax to Caesar
11:13 Later they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Jesus to catch him in his words. 11:14 They came to him and said, “Teacher, we know that you are a man of integrity. You aren’t swayed by others, because you pay no attention to who they are; but you teach the way of God in accordance with the truth. Is it right to pay the imperial tax[n] to Caesar or not? 11:15 Should we pay or shouldn’t we?”

But Jesus knew their hypocrisy. “Why are you trying to trap me?” he asked. “Bring me a denarius and let me look at it.” 11:16 They brought the coin, and he asked them, “Whose image is this? And whose inscription?”

“Caesar’s,” they replied.

11:17 Then Jesus said to them, “Give back to Caesar what is Caesar’s and to God what is God’s.”

And they were amazed at him.

Marriage at the Resurrection
11:18 Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. 11:19 “Teacher,” they said, “Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies and leaves a wife but no children, the man must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. 11:20 Now there were seven brothers. The first one married and died without leaving any children. 11:21 The second one married the widow, but he also died, leaving no child. It was the same with the third. 11:22 In fact, none of the seven left any children. Last of all, the woman died too. 11:23 At the resurrection[o] whose wife will she be, since the seven were married to her?”

11:24 Jesus replied, “Are you not in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God? 11:25 When the dead rise, they will neither marry nor be given in marriage; they will be like the angels in heaven. 11:26 Now about the dead rising—have you not read in the Book of Moses, in the account of the burning bush, how God said to him, ‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’[p]? 11:27 He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are badly mistaken!”

The Greatest Commandment
11:28 One of the teachers of the law came and heard them debating. Noticing that Jesus had given them a good answer, he asked him, “Of all the commandments, which is the most important?”

11:29 “The most important one,” answered Jesus, “is this: ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.[q] 11:30 Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’[r] 11:31 The second is this: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’[s] There is no commandment greater than these.”

11:32 “Well said, teacher,” the man replied. “You are right in saying that God is one and there is no other but him. 11:33 To love him with all your heart, with all your understanding and with all your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself is more important than all burnt offerings and sacrifices.”

11:34 When Jesus saw that he had answered wisely, he said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And from then on no one dared ask him any more questions.

Whose Son Is the Messiah?
11:35 While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, he asked, “Why do the teachers of the law say that the Messiah is the son of David? 11:36 David himself, speaking by the Holy Spirit, declared:

“‘The Lord said to my Lord:
    “Sit at my right hand
until I put your enemies
    under your feet.”’[t]

11:37 David himself calls him ‘Lord.’ How then can he be his son?”

The large crowd listened to him with delight.

Warning Against the Teachers of the Law
11:38 As he taught, Jesus said, “Watch out for the teachers of the law. They like to walk around in flowing robes and be greeted with respect in the marketplaces, 11:39 and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. 11:40 They devour widows’ houses and for a show make lengthy prayers. These men will be punished most severely.”

The Widow’s Offering
11:41 Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. Many rich people threw in large amounts. 11:42 But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a few cents.

11:43 Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, “Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. 11:44 They all gave out of their wealth; but she, out of her poverty, put in everything—all she had to live on.”

