Hypothiel says  "What does the Quran say, in regards to the Injil?"

Verifiel says "Arise Quran 3:3,7

3. God, the living, the eternal, sent down to you the Book with the Truth, confirming what came before it; and He sent down the Torah and the Gospel.  It is He who revealed to you the Book. Some of its verses are definitive; they are the foundation of the Book, and others are unspecific. As for those in whose hearts is deviation, they follow the unspecific part, seeking dissent, and seeking to derive an interpretation. But none knows its interpretation except God and those firmly rooted in knowledge say, “We believe in it; all is from our Lord.” But none recollects except those with understanding.

Hypothiel asks "Is this, then, a prophet who is fit for a common fire?"

Metaphoriel "Or... for the eternal fire, which leaves no ashes?"

Hypothiel, "Or does this testimony bear fruit?  This prophet claims that 'none know its interpretation except God'. There is a Spirit of Truth here.  But is the prophet a true advocate for the Truth, in saying 'none knows the truth?'"

Verifiel says, here is another question.  "Arise Quran 5:116"

"O, Jesus, son of Mary, did you say to the people, 'take me and my mother as gods rather than God?"

Verifiel says...  "Without more context, this may be unwise, but please rise,  "John 19:25-27"

Metaphoriel: "Objection.  Is it wise to cut John's testimony from the whole cloth?"

Hypothiel:  "Why did you not object when the same was done for the Quran?"

Metaphoriel "Touche...  Is it wise to mix the fabrics of two different cloths?  Or do they both come from the whole cloth?"

Jonathan David Doolin considers the question, then says "I would instruct the jury to study the whole cloth before making any rash decisions.  Cast not the prophets into the common fire, but lift the lamp of eternal fire for understanding and wisdom.  All scripture is useful for righteousness... Some for what to do... Some for what not to do."

The Bailiff suggests, "But first, wash the cloth in the name or meaning of the Father and the Son, and the Holy Spirit."  

Verifiel calls to John, and  John points, and a cross appears, labeled "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews"  Jesus is up on the cross, and a group of women stand there, along with John.  Next to the cross is a jar of wine vinegar, with a stalk of hyssop.  

Metaphoriel looks up from the depositions, and interrupts the testimony of John, saying "The executioners hear a man crying out from his crucifix "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me!" In the name of Elijah, they run to get a drink  from this jar."  Metaphoriel points to the jar.  "Thus the blood of many men may be mixed in this jar. As for Elijah, the jar of flour has not been spent spent, neither has the jug of oil become empty, according to the word of the Lord that he spoke by Elijah."

Verifiel nods.  "We have two witnesses, in regards to the custom" (Matthew 27:47-49, Mark 15:36)  And one witness in regards to Elijah's jug of oil. (1 Kings 17:12-16).

John, continue your testimony.  Once again, John turns and raises his hand.  The women around Jesus become identifiable.  Mary, the mother of Jesus, Mary the wife of Clopas,  Mary Magdalene.  The disciple whose love for Jesus was Agape stood nearby.  He said to one of the women, "Woman, here is your son." Then he turned to the disciple and said "Here is your mother."  

Metaphoriel, "Was this not John?  The one who rushes to the bathroom?"

Hypothiel asks "What is Agape love?  What does it mean to love unconditionally?"

Verifiel "Paul?"  (1 Cor 13:4-7)

Paul rises, saying "4 Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. 5 It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. 6 Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. 7 It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres."

Hypothiel asks "I'm mostly in agreement, but what of keeping no record of wrongs?"

Metaphoriel, "Verifiel, could you summon the testimony of Minna Unchi, as translated by Amanda Mayer Stinchecum?"

Verifiel says "I found a deposition from Taro Gomi."

Taro Gomi appears, saying, "A one hump camel makes a one hump poop, and a two hump camel makes a two hump poop.  (only kidding!)  Different animals make different kinds of poop.  Which end is the snake's behind?  What does the whale poop look like?"  

The Bailiff says "I think we have the general idea."

But Taro Gomi continues,  (pointing to an alligator) "This one poops in the water." Then she points to a little boy. "He wipes himself with paper, but then...  flushes it down."

"Interesting."  Metaphoriel says. "If a prophet were to poop in the water, then wipe himself with a cut from the whole cloth,  and the cut has been handed to the John, who loves the prophet unconditionally, how should the John treat that cut from the whole cloth?"

Verifiel says "There is nothing here even remotely saying that a prophet is pooping in the water.  Jesus of Nazareth just says "Woman, here is your son.  Here is your mother."  

Metaphoriel says "No.  The trumpet sound comes from the cross that is not labeled 'Jesus of Nazareth'"

So Jesus says, "I am thirsty".  And the guards lift the hyssop into his face, and he drinks 

Metaphoriel, "from a tincture, mixed with the blood of the Son of Man."

Metaphoriel "The form of Jesus, then, becomes a doorway.  The blood of the lamb is on the top and sides and insides of the doorframe.  Anyone who believes in the meaning of the name of that doorframe has salvation, because they believe in salvation.  Anyone who does not believe in the meaning of salvation, already stands condemned, because they put their faith in entropy, instead of its only child."

For the gentiles who accept that Jesus or the meaning of Jesus is a doorway, then..."

Verifiel points, (Exodus 12:23) and says "Arise, Moses"   

Moses says "When the Lord goes through the land, he will see the blood on the top and sides of the doorframe and will pass over that doorway, and he will not permit the destroyer to enter your houses and strike you down."

Metaphoriel says "At least not for eating the wrong kind of bread over Passover."  

Verifiel says "Continue, John, with your witness."

John rises and lifts his hand once again.  Jesus, on the cross, says "It is finished, and gave up his spirit."


