Continuing on my RNC watch....  
You'll notice I am far behind.  Yesterday, I covered the first six speakers, and I am still on the first night.  We'll start with Glenn Youngkin.

Glenn Youngkin was the first white male speaker.  He complained about inflation, and said inflation was low under Trump and high under Biden.  

Here was the first person that didn't blame Biden for the inflation.  He only correlated them.  He also didn't make any slurs toward Democrats.  Here was the first person of the speakers who I could say only differs with the Democrats in policy, and could actually be a potential friend.  


Kristi Noem came out saying "Trump honored the constitution and let me keep my people free."  She was the governor of South Dakota, the only state who did not institute any kind of restriction with regards to the Covid epidemic.  

Kristi Noem did not speak about how the economy was universally going to hell under the Biden administration, but spoke enthusiastically about how strong the economy of South Dakota was.

I also felt like she was the only person who has been on stage so far that made a genuine and earnest call for listening to each other, and for unity.

Byron Donalds 
Byron said that when he was young, Democrat politicians wanted to trap him in a failing public school.  He said his mother really believed in his potential, though, and paid to get him in a private school.  Then he said that Far Left teachers' unions want to trap black kids in failing public schools.  Then he said that Donald Trump would give EVERYONE the opportunity to choose between a failing public school, and paying for a private school.  

Do I need to...  What?   Can you run that by me again?  You want to make it so EVERYONE has to make a choice between a free public school that is failing, and paying for a private school?  Now, I might be wrong here, but I thought that the teachers' unions wanted to make it so that they had enough money to provide schools that weren't failing.  And then, you could choose between a free successful public school and paying for a private school.  But then, the Republicans passed their "No Child Left Behind" act, which made it so any public school that was failing was defunded, so it failed harder.  Then, anybody at that school with the money had the choice between a failing public school and paying for a private school.  

CHARLIE KIRK
This guy was insulting to Democrats and Biden/Harris, but in some really weird ways.

He said "The vision of the Biden Harris regime is that you'll own nothing and be happy...  Their vision is 'limit your dreams, give up, aim lower, be content with less.'  He said "under Biden our young people own nothing and they are miserable."

Yeah, none of those things are even remotely true.  

MARSHA BLACKBURN
She started with the gas price stupidity.  That is pointing out how gas prices were lower at the end of Trump's term at the height of the pandemic (When oil companies were paying to store oil) than they are now, when people are driving, and airplanes are going places.

Then she reminded us that the Trump tax cuts are only temporary, and that decision is coming up.  

She said that Biden/Harris hired 85,000 IRS agents, and that Trump would fire them all.  And she said that Trump would end all regulation of business.  She seemed to genuinely believe that the end of regulation would mean that small businesses would somehow benefit...  Like monopolies wouldn't take 99% of the pie.  Weird.  

Alright, well, that's where I stopped tonight.  If you want to read more, search my feed.  Facebook might show it to you.  Might not.  Lord knows, I don't know their algorithm.  


