''Claim 1: "I am the gate for the sheep."''
The Pharisees believed this to be a metaphor of one type, while it was actually a metaphor of another type.

They believed that Jesus Barabbas was claiming to be a gatekeeper for the heavenly realm.  

In actuality, Jesus was not making a claim at all, but telling the answer to a sort of "What am I" riddle.  Much like in the Riddle of the Sphinx, where the Sphinx says "What am I?" he was not asking Oedipus to describe a Sphinx, which the Sphinx was, but a man, which the Sphinx was not.

Similarly, here, Jesus Barabbas is asking the Pharisees to identify him as a gate, which he clearly is not, rather than a man, which he is.

Claim 2: "whoever enters through me will be saved" (John 10:9)
Pharisees' likely interpretation: Jesus Barabbas seemed to claim that believing in his teachings would provide salvation for those who heard him.  What Jesus Barabbas was actually claiming was that sheep that enter a fenced area are safer than those who are in an open pasture.

Claim 3: "The thief comes only to kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full" (John 10:10)
Pharisees' likely interpretation:  The Pharisees understood that the difference between thieves and land-owners was a matter of property rights.  A hungry man will come to kill and destroy a sheep so that he can eat it and have life, and a hungry man who eats mutton is enjoying life to the full.  As to whether that man is called a "thief" or a "shepherd" depends on his property rights, and how he treats the sheep.  While a good gate and fence can be used to protect your sheep from theives, it also could be used as a storage area to store stolen sheep.  So when Jesus Barabbas says he has come that "they" may have life, and have it to the full, it was unclear to the Pharisees whether he meant that the sheep had life to the full, or if the thieves had life to the full.  Since most sheep are slaughtered for their meat while they are still young, it makes more sense to interpret this saying to mean "the thieves" have life to the full.

Claim 4: "The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep" (John 10:11-15)
As Jesus Barabbas said this, the Pharisees would probably recognize it as a false statement.  A good shepherd does not lay down his life for his sheep, but chases away predators and keeps them safe from harm.  He does not get himself killed for no reason.  However, they would have also thought that Jesus Barabbas was stating a willingness to become a martyr for his cause.  

Claim 5:  I have other sheep that are not of this sheep pen. I must bring them also. 
Pharisees' interpretation:  Jesus Barabbas seemed to want to gain followers who would listen to his voice, regardless of their background.  They may have believed what Jesus meant by "this sheep pen" was Solomon's Colonnade, where they were standing, or the Jewish Temple which it was a part of.  

Claim 6:  The reason my Father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again.
Pharisees' interpretation:  It would seem that Jesus is making a claim about God.  Some Pharisees teach that God loves everyone unconditionally.  Others teach that God loves people according to some merit.  Perhaps God loves according to your obedience to the Law, or God loves according to your kindness and charity.  Here, though, Jesus Barabbas is saying that God loves him because of a trick he can do.  He can lay down his life and pick it back up again.  Furthermore, in the occupation of a shepherd, this is a fairly useless trick.  When the wolves come, and the shepherd lays down his life, there is no one to protect the sheep.  When he gets back up again, the wolves have already done their damage, having killed and eaten whatever portion of the flock as they pleased.  

Demon Accusation:  Some Pharisees present would have understood Jesus Barabbas to make certain claims which are more consistent with a child of hell rather than a child of heaven.  They understood Jesus to say "The thief comes to kill and destroy, and I will assure he has life in full."  Pharisees familiar with the prophesy of Zechariah might have thought of Zech 11:4 //Shepherd the flock marked for slaughter.  Their buyers slaughter them and go unpunished.  Those who sell them say, 'Praise the lord, I am rich!'  Their own shepherds do not spare them.//

They understood Jesus to say, "The good shepherd lays down his life and leaves his sheep undefended before taking his life back up again, and my father loves me for that."  Again, Pharisees may have thought of the verse in Zechariah, saying "I will not be your shepherd.  Let the dying die and the perishing perish.  Let those who are left eat one another's flesh."

