Live Interviews

https://www.youtube.com/live/szm4fJLaQUU?si=cWLMen0zZLxIsOH-&t=5839

It was pretty scary, you know.  And there must have been a shooter on the outside of the perimeter, you know, and he must have been shooting inside and hit some innocent bystanders, and there was a big uh, crane there, with speakers, and there was a line there, and the bullet got hit, and the line got hit, and you could see all the uh fluid go out of the uh hydraulic line.  "So uh we know there are so many unconfirmed reports, we know law enforcement is still working, this is an active investigation right now.  How were you feeling?  How... uh, what... Standing here right now, this has been a very chaotic 24 hours."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bX2T-FfBkhs&t=65s
Yeah, at first I was thinking, I thought different thoughts like maybe this was the shooter and then he committed suicide, or maybe someone shot him, that's what my first thoughts were.  I didn't think about it was just like someone who was in the stands.  That's what I thought.  

"And now knowing this was someone in the stands, how are you processing this."

https://www.youtube.com/live/szm4fJLaQUU?t=5740s

https://www.youtube.com/live/szm4fJLaQUU?si=HP4rSIWsTC3cO47o&t=7794
From what I hear, there were possibly two shooters.  There's a gentleman here that has a picture of one of the shooters that was rolled off of the building.  And he was shot by the um sharpshooters behind Trump.  And we.. I saw a gentleman leave from the left stands and he had a red blood all down his shirt.  He wasn't hit but I think he was around somebody who was.  So just picking up old bits of things, um, we're all in shock.

...Maybe it cut the words on the teleprompter, but some people tell me they think one of the shots hit the teleprompter, and that could have made him with the cheek.  
"There's a lot of unconfirmed reports still out there, we're all still sorting through this."

https://www.youtube.com/live/szm4fJLaQUU?si=YTmyu3L7NqTotbED&t=16467
We were there for a minute because they did tell us to go back down for a minute, because they did tell us to go back down for a minute, just in case, but I think that was just to like calm people down um but I think one of the stands I was next to; they did like carry out a man.  And there was another one that might have been injured, I'm not a hundred percent sure, but definitely one at least.  And on the other stand, on the other side, 'cuz I was on the right.  On the left, there were like a bunch of uh like men in uniform like surrounding someone, so that was interesting to see.  

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kc-l52InWAo&t=28s
I knew it was gunfire but I couldn't quite tell where it was coming from.  It sounded like it was coming from behind the bleachers.  And a man in the bleachers kind of to the right of me in the bleachers took a gunshot wound to the head, um, was killed, and another woman, I don't know exactly where she was, I think she was behind me or to the right of me, she got a round in the... she got hit in the forearm and hand it looked like, but it just one, she wasn't killed.  

"Can I ask you how you are feeling, obviously you just witnessed something terrible happen.  A lot of chaos was in the room.  How exactly are you feeling right now, Joseph."

Something you don't expect.  It's a bolt out of the blue, so it's very shocking.  I think a lot of people in the crowd thought it was fireworks going off.  I knew immedieately it was gunshots.  I knew they were close, and then when I saw someone get hit and go down, that's when it was probably serious.  Um.  You know there was a lot of confusion.  Just massive confusion you know, throughout the event.  Um, I saw Donald Trump get hit, um.  It looked like he had... He was either... I have my... I was running my camera at the time running the camera at the time, it looked like he was just turning his head to the side, and it looked like he got grazed in the right ear with a bullet.  I kind of saw that go on and I looked at some 

died in the bleachers.  It was just complete pandemonium.  There was a bit of delay,

confusion but immediately, it seemed 

couldn't figure out where it was coming from, and then ... there ... swat team showed up relatively quickly, ...aside, there's a fence ... bleachers ... and then helped carry the body down out of the bleachers and they took him to a tent behind the bleachers and they put a towel over his head ... he is deceased.  

