

Gethsemane

26:39 Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, “My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet not as I will, but as you will.”

26:40 Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. “Couldn’t you men keep watch with me for one hour?” he asked Peter. 26:41 “Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”

26:42 He went away a second time and prayed, “My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done.”

26:43 When he came back, he again found them sleeping, because their eyes were heavy. 26:44 So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing.

26:45 Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners. 26:46 Rise! Let us go! Here comes my betrayer!”

Jesus Arrested
26:47 While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. 26:48 Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them: “The one I kiss is the man; arrest him.” 26:49 Going at once to Jesus, Judas said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” and kissed him.

26:50 Jesus replied, “Do what you came for, friend.”[d]

Then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus and arrested him. 26:51 With that, one of Jesus’ companions reached for his sword, drew it out and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear.

26:52 “Put your sword back in its place,” Jesus said to him, “for all who draw the sword will die by the sword. 26:53 Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? 26:54 But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?”

26:55 In that hour Jesus said to the crowd, “Am I leading a rebellion, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. 26:56 But this has all taken place that the writings of the prophets might be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples deserted him and fled.

Jesus Before the Sanhedrin
26:57 Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. 26:58 But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome.

26:59 The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. 26:60 But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward.

Finally two came forward 26:61 and declared, “This fellow said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.’”

26:62 Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, “Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you?” 26:63 But Jesus remained silent.

The high priest said to him, “I charge you under oath by the living God: Tell us if you are the Messiah, the Son of God.”

26:64 “You have said so,” Jesus replied. “But I say to all of you: From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven.”[e]

26:65 Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, “He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have heard the blasphemy. 26:66 What do you think?”

“He is worthy of death,” they answered.

26:67 Then they spit in his face and struck him with their fists. Others slapped him 26:68 and said, “Prophesy to us, Messiah. Who hit you?”

Peter Disowns Jesus
26:69 Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. “You also were with Jesus of Galilee,” she said.

26:70 But he denied it before them all. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said.

26:71 Then he went out to the gateway, where another servant girl saw him and said to the people there, “This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth.”

26:72 He denied it again, with an oath: “I don’t know the man!”

26:73 After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, “Surely you are one of them; your accent gives you away.”

26:74 Then he began to call down curses, and he swore to them, “I don’t know the man!”

Immediately a rooster crowed. 26:75 Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: “Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.” And he went outside and wept bitterly.