Verifiel says "1 Kings 18:16-42" and two men appear.  Ahab says to Elijah "Is that you, you troubler of Israel?"

Elijah responds, "I have not made trouble for Israel.  You have abandoned the Lord's commands and have followed the Baals.  Now summon all the people of Israels to meet me on Mount Carmel, and bring the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of Asherah who eat at Jezebel's table."

The scene fades, and thousands of people come to Mount Carmel.  Elijah shouted, "How long will you waiver between two opinions?  Choose between Baal and God."

Though Obadiah had hidden fifty prophets in each of two caves, Elijah said "I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has four hundred fifty prophets."

(Notably, he does not challenge the 400 prophets of Asherah who eat at Jezebel's table.)

Elijah continues "Get two bulls for us.  Let Baal's prophets choose one for themselves, and let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood but not set fire to it.  I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood but not set fire to it.  Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord.  The god who answers by fire -- he is God."

Then all the people said, "What you say is good."

"Whoah, whoah, whoah..." interrupts Metaphoriel.  "Everyone said this was good?"

Hypothiel says "Perhaps.  The crowd thought it was good because they expected both Gods to be disproven.  The prophets of Asherah thought it was good because they were being left out of it.  And the prophets of Baal thought it was good because they truly believed that their God would give them fire from nowhere.  And Elijah thought it was good because he had the means to produce fire from water."

Hypothiel says, "What happened next?"

"The prophets of Baal were unable to produce the evidence of fire.  But the prophet, Elijah, who issued the challenge, produced the evidence of fire." 

The people and the prophets of Asherah all saw the evidence that Baal was a false God, and Ezekiel's lord was a true God, and Ezekiel ordered that the prophets of Baal be taken from the peak of Mount Carmel to the depths of the Kishon valley, and be slaughtered there.

But Ahab lied to Jezebel and told her that Elijah had killed all of the prophets.  Not just the prophets of Baal.  And she was very angry because of this lie.  She said she would make Elijah's life like that of one of the prophets she thought he had killed.

But metaphoriel says "If a prophet of Asherah... gets the point... so to speak, has she been killed by the sword?"  

Hypothiel, "You mean the point of an idea, or, umm... "

Metaphoriel, "We can't make the case that it was execution.  As for what it was...  Revelation...   Violation...  Cohabitation... Procreation...  We can't tell.  Just... anything but assassination."

Hypothiel asks, "What else did Jezebel do?"

"One day," says Verifiel, "Jezebel's husband Ahab was wanting to buy a garden from a man named Naboth.  But Naboth would not sell it to him for any price.  When Jezebel found out, she wrote letters in Ahab's name.  She wrote to them 'Proclaim a day of feasting in Naboth's honor'.  Then seat two scoundrels next to him who will accuse him of cursing both God and the King.  Then take him out and stone him to death."

Hypothiel asks Metaphoriel if she can tolerate that. 

Metaphoriel, "The ninth commandment says Though shalt not bear false witness against your Naboth...  I mean, Neighbor.  No.  I cannot bear these two false witnesses against man and God.  But what should I do?  Should I burn Jezebel?  Should I burn the witnesses?  No. The book of 1 Kings tolerates Jezebel, in order to preserve her errors, so that we can learn from them.  I tolerate her and the false witnesses in the same way.  But tolerating is not the same as emulation.  Toleration is certainly not the same as obedience."  

Verifiel continues "As for Jezebel, dogs will devour her on the plot of ground at Jezreel, and no one will bury her."

Metaphoriel stands at the dead body of Jezebel, watching the dogs come.  "Shoo!  Shoo!  Don't eat that!  Bad food."

Verifiel continues "But the dogs came along, and devoured Jezebel's flesh until her body was like dung on the ground in the plot at Jezreel, so that no one would be able to say, 'This is Jezebel'"

Hypothiel, "Say that again, Verifiel?  Those last three words?"

Verifiel  "This is Jezebel."



Hypothiel, "So, among the possibilities, we find that Jezebel wanted to release Elijah from his God to procreate with him, just as the prophets of Asherah were released from the prophets of Baal."

Verifiel.  "It's a hard sell."


