---
Title: Bender Goes to Oxford
Author: Darrell Bender
Date: 2012-05-31
Genre: Physics Correspondence
Agent-Writable: SHAIBR
Repository-Source: none
Repository-Destination: spaces/KinematicModelResearch/correspondence/BenderGoesToOxford-DarrellBender.txt
Version: v1.0.0
Prev-Version: none
Change-Note: Add universal-template header for provenance and discoverability
Tags: [Special Relativity, Lorentz Transformation, Thought Experiment, Academic Debate, Oxford, James Binney, Michael Bowler]
RitualNote: "For one who does thought experiments, as Einstein did, the maxim is that one cannot perform enough of them."
RitualNoteKey: Bender Thought Experiment
---
1Bender Goes to OxfordDarrell BenderThe problem with using Einstein’s equations of coordinate transformation to calculate thevelocity of light in the moving system is that the length of the light path, using these equationsof coordinate transformation, is not l, the value of the length using measuring-rods of themoving system; thus, if one obtains c for the velocity of light using Einstein’s equations ofcoordinate transformation, the velocity of light as measured in the moving system is not c. Aswe noted in the first paper, “For one who does thought experiments, as Einstein did, the maximis that one cannot perform enough of them.” Thus Einstein errs in ignoring the result ofoperation (a) and thinking that the velocity of light as measured in the moving system is thatwhich one obtains using his equations of coordinate transformation. When Bowler states, “Thereal question is whether the world is really so constructed that the measured coordinates ofevents in different inertial frames are related by the Lorentz transformations,” he, evidently, isnot aware that “in accordance with the principle of relativity the length to be discovered by theoperation (a)—we will call it ‘the length of the rod in the moving system’—must be equal to thelength l of the stationary rod.” In the world, Bowler, one needs to divide the light path by thetime interval. If one examines the times in the Bender’s rods document, they are not the same,violating Einstein’s premise that clocks in the moving system are synchronous.
Page 2
2We send the papers, The Material Point Universe and The Material Point Universe Revisited, tothe physicists, through letter H, at Oxford University. This amounts to sending the papersabroad. We delude ourselves into thinking that the physicists there will take an honest look, yetthe reality is probably that they did not bother to look at all.On 31/05/2012, in a rush to leave, we write up the following example for the first time andsend it to James Binney, Professor of Physics and Head of the Peierls Centre for TheoreticalPhysics, Oxford University:“Consider two rigid rods, each of length l, with identical clocks moving at the same rate at theends of each rod. At a certain time t the rods coincide. One rod moves to the left with velocityv; one rod moves to the right with velocity v. At the time t, all clocks are set to zero and a ray oflight is emitted to the right from the common left endpoint of the two rods. According toEinstein's special theory of relativity, the velocity of light as measured in each moving system isc; so that when the light ray reaches the right endpoint of the rod moving to the left, the rightendpoint of the rod moving to the right must be in the same place. This is clearly impossible.This proves that the velocity of light as measured in the moving systems is not c and that clocksin the moving system are not synchronous.”Now, in the papers, there are scores of simple arguments which prove that special relativity isfalse; yet, evidently, neither Binney nor anyone else reads papers that contradict relativity sincethey do not have open minds. Binney, in spite of his closed mind, features himself as giftedeven though he has no gifts, and he must protect his image. This passes for gifted.Bender did not work ten to fifteen years to send these papers to Binney in order to get Binney’sworthless opinion. One could argue with Binney, yet Binney does not accept valid arguments.Binney begins by asserting that we presume an absoluteness of time, which, of course, we donot:“Your fallacy lies in the statement "at a certain time t" an event happens. This presumes theabsoluteness of time. Actually different observers assign different times to the same event. Ifyou step outside of Einstein's framework in setting up the problem, it is to be expected that youarrive at a contradi(c)tion.Really, there's nothing in the least puzzling about special relativity. Physics is full of puzzles, butspecial relativity isn't a good hunting ground for them once you grasp that every situation hasto be broken down into a number of events, and that space-time coordinates need to beassigned to these events using the correct formulae for transforming between frames.”
Page 3
3What Binney means by “stepping outside of Einstein’s framework in setting up the problem” isthat any other logical arguments, not considering a “situation (that) has to be broken down intoa number of events,” and not considering a situation in which space-time coordinates are “tobe assigned to these events using the correct formulae for transforming between frames,”based on Einstein’s own premises, give, as expected, a contradiction.So the only way one can obtain the “correct” answer, according to Binney, is to use Einstein’sequations of coordinate transformation to endlessly calculate the velocity of light and get c. Wehave shown, in Part 1 of The Material Point Universe Revisited, that Einstein’s equations ofcoordinate transformation are phony. We show here that these equations are extremely phony.We reply, in part, to Binney as follows:“In the rest system, synchronous clocks, synchronized via light signals, give, in effect, anabsolute time. Clocks are corrected, via synchronization, to read the same thing. Suppose a lightsignal leaves a point A and the clock at A is simultaneously set to zero; when the light reachesthe point B, the clock at B is set to d/c, where d is the distance between A and B.In the rest system, there a common time, that given by the synchronous clocks, for theendpoints and the entire rods to coincide. When the rods coincide in the rest system, the clocksin the moving system will read something. The clocks, at the ends of each rod, might be zeroedin the moving systems or via a signal from the rest system. They need not be zeroed at all.When the light ray reaches the right endpoint of the rod moving to the left, the difference inthe reading of the clock on the left endpoint from the reading of the clock on the right endpointis, according to Einstein, l/c. When the light ray reaches the right endpoint of the rod moving tothe right, the difference in the reading of the clock on the left endpoint from the reading of theclock on the right endpoint is, once again, according to Einstein, l/c. This contradicts the clocksmoving at the same rate.We have spent more than a few hours on this. In effect, we claim (that) there is no fallacy andthat we need reasonable room to argue. The existence of the Doppler effect proves that clocksin the moving system are not synchronous. This also proves that, in the moving system, onecannot divide the length of the apparent path by the time and get c. So there are other ways toarrive at contradiction than the example given this morning.”Michael Bowler, who at Oxford is listed as a “retired academic,” states, in a subsequent email,“I hope that a proper analysis of your simple example will be sufficient. James Binney beat meto it and he is perfectly correct.The attached document spells it all out in great detail.”Bowler’s attachment follows:
Page 4
4“Bender’s rodsSpecial relativity is a description of the structure of the physical world and as such could beright or wrong. One way of summarising the content is to say that the structure of matter issuch that the laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames when expressed in terms ofcoordinates measured with real equipment and that these coordinates are related by theLorentz transformations. If this is true there is no contradiction to be found in Bender’s rodsproblem. Set up the problem very carefully and assign coordinates to each event of significance.We start with some particular inertial frame S and in that frame an observer sees two rods, onemoving along his positive x axis at speed v (inhabiting frame SR ) and the other along hisnegative x axis at speed v (inhabiting SL ). Both are aligned parallel to the x axis. Any fixed pointon either rod can be measured at any time t and so the evolution of its x coordinate with ttracked; this constitutes measurement of a velocity v.Event number 1 of interest takes place at x = 0 and t = 0 in frame S. It corresponds to the lefthand edges of both rods being instantaneously at x = 0 and a light pulse is launched to the right,along the positive x axis, travelling with speed c. Event number 2 also occurs at t=0 in S but itoccurs at spatial coordinate x = l, where the right hand ends of the rods coincide momentarily.Thus the length of the rods l is the length measured in frame S. For convenience, we set the lefthand end of each rod to be coordinates xL (1)  xR (1)  0 and also choose tL (1)  tR (1)  0. Withthese conventions the Lorentz transformations relating the coordinates of some general event(x,t) in S to the measured coordinates of the same event in SR and SL are respectivelyxR  (x  vt) xL  (x  vt)tR  (t  vx /c2 ) tL  (t  vx /c2 )where as usual   1/ 1  v 2c 2 .For event 2, t=0 and x=l. Substituting into the transformation equations above, the coordinatesmeasured for event 2 in the frames SR and SL are given byxR (2)  l xL (2)  ltR (2)  lv /c2 tL (2)  lv /c2The proper lengths of the two rods are l; the measured lengths in S are l. This difference inmeasured lengths is known as Lorentz contraction. Note that the measured time coordinates ofevent 2 are different in all three frames.
Page 5
5Event number 3 is light launched at event 1 reaching the right hand end of the left moving rod.First work out the coordinates in frame S.x(3)  ct(3) x(3)  l  vt(3)because the right hand end of the rod at rest in SL has moved to the left by vt(3) when itmeets the oncoming light pulse. Solve to obtainx(3)  l1  v /c and t(3)  l /c1 v /cand of course light has travelled at speed c between event 1 and event 3 as measured in S.Now calculate the coordinates measured in SL for event 3, by substitution of x(3) and t(3) intothe transformations from S to SL :xL (3)  l /(1 v /c)  vl /(c  v) tL (3)  l /(c  v)  vc l /(c  v)Event 1 – where the light pulse was launched – has coordinates (0, 0) in all three frames. Thespeed of the light pulse measured in the left moving frame is therefore the ratio of thecoordinates of event 3 and this ratio is c.This is getting monotonous but I may as well finish up. Event 4 is where the light pulse emittedin event 1 catches up the right hand end of the right moving rod. First calculatex(4)  ct(4) x(4)  l  vt(4)and hencex(4)  l1 v /c and t(4)  l /c1 v /cSubstitute into the transformations from S to SR to find the coordinates of event 4 as measuredin the right moving framexR (4)  l /(1 v /c)  vl /(c  v) tR (4)  l /(c  v)  vc l /(c  v)
Page 6
6The speed of the light pulse measured between events 1 and 4 in the right moving frame is alsoc.Thus in the Bender problem the measured speeds of light are c in all three frames and there isnothing impossible or contradictory.The real question is whether the world is really so constructed that the measured coordinatesof events in different inertial frames are related by the Lorentz transformations. Like it or not,the experimental results are YES – to as good a degree of approximation as has yet beenachieved. Accelerators designed to produce energies many orders of magnitude in excess ofparticle rest energy work. Very very high energy electrons can’t beat photons over kilometredistances. Neutral pions moving at very nearly the speed of light as measured in the lab decayinto photons travelling at c in the same lab, whatever their direction.Gravity has only been tested in fairly weak field limits. In this limit, deflection of light by the sunhas been tested to somewhere around the 1% level. The various relativistic phenomena forclose binaries have been tested with ever increasing precision with the Hulse-Taylor binarypulsar......... As far as both SR and GR are concerned, so far so good!”Since any argument that disproves relativity steps outside, making relativity non-falsifiable, theframework, the only recourse, in arguing with idiots, is to destroy the framework. Destroyingthe framework steps outside of the framework, but there is great satisfaction in makingdishonest jerks squirm.We sent, to the usual proponents of non-falsifiable relativity at Oxford, a poorly thought out,the principle excuse being lack of sleep, argument to take out Einstein’s equations ofcoordinate transformation. Bowler sent us a second of two “careful analyses” and stated,“Please do not bother me any more.”We remedy the poorly thought out part now.Einstein’s equations of coordinate transformation are, once again,𝜏 = 𝛽(𝑡 − 𝑣𝑥 𝑐ଶ⁄ ) , = 𝛽(𝑥 − 𝑣𝑡), = 𝑦 , = 𝑧 ,where𝛽 = ଵ√(ଵି௩ మ ௖మ⁄ ) .
Page 7
7We have𝜕𝜏𝜕𝑥 = −𝛽 𝑣𝑐ଶ,and𝜕𝜏𝜕𝑡 = 𝛽.The first partial derivative shows that, with t fixed, the change in  is a negative constant, −𝛽 ௩௖మ,times the change in x; the second partial derivative, that, with x fixed, the change in  is 𝛽,which is greater than one, times the change in t. Since the change in the rate of the movingclock is caused by the change in x, one might expect the second partial derivative to beconstant, with 𝜏 a function of 𝑥 and 𝑡, in fact, linear in 𝑡. We have𝑑𝜏 = 𝛽𝑑𝑡 − 𝛽 𝑣𝑐ଶ 𝑑𝑥,so that, in a sense, according to this equation, the rate of a moving clock is the sum of the rateof a faster clock and the rate of a clock which moves backwards in time. According to Bowler,the second partial derivative gives∆𝜏 = 𝛽∆𝑡,“and this is the correct calculation of time dilation.”We have𝑑𝜏 = 𝛽 ൬1 − 𝑣𝑐ଶ𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑡 ൰ 𝑑𝑡 = 𝛽 ቆ1 − 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇ 𝑑𝑡,or𝑑𝜏 = ቌඨቆ1 − 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇቍ 𝑑𝑡,which, at first sight, does give the correct equation for time dilation. When we see this lastequation, we are astonished that Einstein did, apparently, come up with the “correct”equations of coordinate transformation.
Page 8
8This astonishment lasts until we look at the equation of coordinate transformation for the x-coordinate: = 𝛽(𝑥 − 𝑣𝑡),from which, similarly, we obtain𝑑 = 𝛽𝑑𝑥 − 𝛽𝑣𝑑𝑡 = 𝛽 ൬1 − 𝑣 𝑑𝑡𝑑𝑥൰ 𝑑𝑥 = 0.This last equation is, apparently, the correct equation to show that we have destroyed theframework.These expressions for 𝑑𝜏 and 𝑑,𝑑𝜏 = ቌඨቆ1 − 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇቍ 𝑑𝑡and𝑑 = 0,hold if and only if𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑡 = 𝑣,When we looked at Bowler’s short analysis, “Bender’s rods,” we noted that the only thing thathe could do, working in the framework, was to use Einstein’s equations of coordinatetransformation to calculate the velocity of light in the moving system and get c. After doing this,Bowler remarks, “Thus in the Bender problem the measured speeds of light are c in all threeframes and there is nothing impossible or contradictory.” We reasoned that if we show thatthese equations of coordinate transformation are false, then Bowler cannot do anything at all.At the beginning of Bowler’s analysis, he states,“Special relativity is a description of the structure of the physical world and as such could beright or wrong. One way of summarising the content is to say that the structure of matter issuch that the laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames when expressed in terms ofcoordinates measured with real equipment and that these coordinates are related by theLorentz transformations. If this is true there is no contradiction to be found in Bender’s rodsproblem.”Bowler never shows “this is true.” He writes about “whether the world is really so constructed”:
Page 9
9“The real question is whether the world is really so constructed that the measured coordinatesof events in different inertial frames are related by the Lorentz transformations. Like it or not,the experimental results are YES – to as good a degree of approximation as has yet beenachieved. Accelerators designed to produce energies many orders of magnitude in excess ofparticle rest energy work. Very very high energy electrons can’t beat photons over kilometredistances. Neutral pions moving at very nearly the speed of light as measured in the lab decayinto photons travelling at c in the same lab, whatever their direction.”As in Part 1, “In § 2. On the Relativity of Lengths and Times, Einstein rephrases his principles ofrelativity and the constancy of the velocity of light as follows“1. The laws by which the states of physical systems undergo change are not affected,whether these changes of state be referred to the one or the other of two systems ofco-ordinates in uniform translatory motion.2. Any ray of light moves in the ‘stationary’ system of co-ordinates with the determinedvelocity c, whether the ray is emitted by a stationary or moving body. Hence𝑣𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑦 = ௟௜௚௛௧ ௣௔௧௛௧௜௠௘ ௜௡௧௘௥௩௔௟where time interval is taken in the sense of the definition in § 1.””Once again, as in Part 1, given his expression for , Einstein states,“With the help of this result we easily determine the quantities  by expressing inequations that light (as required by the principle of constancy of the velocity of light, incombination with the principle of relativity) is also propagated with a velocity c when measuredin the moving system.”When Einstein writes of measuring the velocity of light in the moving system, he means usingthe measuring-rods and clocks of the moving system to obtain the velocity given in 2. Oncemore, as in Part 1, “Einstein continues, once again, as follows:“Let there be given a stationary rigid rod; and let its length be l as measured by ameasuring-rod which is also stationary. We now imagine the axis of the rod lying along the axisof x of the stationary system of co-ordinates, and that a uniform motion of parallel translationwith velocity v along the axis of x in the direction of increasing x is then imparted to the rod.We now inquire as to the length of the moving rod, and imagine its length to be ascertained bythe following two operations:—
Page 10
10(a) The observer moves together with the given measuring-rod, and measures thelength of the rod directly by superposing the measuring-rod, in just the same way as ifall three were at rest.(b) By means of stationary clocks set up in the stationary system and synchronizing inaccordance with § 1, the observer ascertains at what points of the stationary system thetwo ends of the rod to be measured are located at a definite time. The distancebetween these points, measured by the measuring-rod already employed, which in thiscase is at rest, is also a length which may be designated ‘the length of the rod.’In accordance with the principle of relativity the length to be discovered by the operation (a)—we will call it ‘the length of the rod in the moving system’—must be equal to the length l of thestationary rod.The length to be discovered by the operation (b) we will call ‘the length of the (moving) rod inthe stationary system.’ This we shall determine of the basis of our two principles, and we shallfind that it differs from l.”Einstein’s conclusion that the length of the rod in the moving system must be equal to thelength l of the stationary rod, arrived at via the principle of relativity, is just a special case of thefundamental assertion, given previously here. Applying Einstein’s principle 1 to his principle 2, itfollows that 2 holds with “stationary” replaced by “moving,” or, as Hawking nearly states, that“observers should all measure the same speed for light, no matter how they were moving.” Thismeans that Einstein’s definition of velocity as light path divided by time interval holds in themoving system. Clearly, if the length of the rod in the moving system is equal to the length l ofthe stationary rod, the time interval must be equal in the two systems in order that the velocitybe constant.”The problem with using Einstein’s equations of coordinate transformation to calculate thevelocity of light in the moving system is that the length of the light path, using these equationsof coordinate transformation, is not l, the value of the length using measuring-rods of themoving system; thus, if one obtains c for the velocity of light using Einstein’s equations ofcoordinate transformation, the velocity of light as measured in the moving system is not c.As we noted in the first paper, “For one who does thought experiments, as Einstein did, themaxim is that one cannot perform enough of them.” Thus Einstein errs in ignoring the result ofoperation (a) and thinking that the velocity of light as measured in the moving system is thatwhich one obtains using his equations of coordinate transformation.When Bowler states, “The real question is whether the world is really so constructed that themeasured coordinates of events in different inertial frames are related by the Lorentztransformations,” he, evidently, is not aware that “in accordance with the principle of relativity
Page 11
11the length to be discovered by the operation (a)—we will call it ‘the length of the rod in themoving system’—must be equal to the length l of the stationary rod.”In the world, Bowler, one needs to divide the light path by the time interval. If one examinesthe times in the Bender’s rods document, they are not the same, violating Einstein’s premisethat clocks in the moving system are synchronous.When we calculated𝑑𝜏 = ቌඨቆ1 − 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇቍ 𝑑𝑡,apparently obtaining a slower clock in the moving system, we used the equation of coordinatetransformation for the time coordinate,𝜏 = 𝛽(𝑡 − 𝑣𝑥 𝑐ଶ⁄ ),which holds for clocks moving to the right. If one considers a clock moving to the left, as a quicklook at Bowler’s analysis of Bender’s rods shows, the equation of coordinate transformation forthe time coordinate becomes𝜏 = 𝛽(𝑡 + 𝑣𝑥 𝑐ଶ⁄ ),which gives𝑑𝜏 = 𝛽 ቆ1 + 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇ 𝑑𝑡,which corresponds to a faster clock.If one were to calculate 𝜏(3), which is Bowler’s 𝑡௅(3), from this, for𝑥(3) = 𝑙1 + 𝑣 𝑐⁄and𝑡(3) = 𝑙 𝑐⁄1 + 𝑣 𝑐⁄ ,by integrating
Page 12
12𝑑𝜏 = 𝛽 ቆ1 + 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇ 𝑑𝑡,one obtains𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቆ1 + 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ ቇ 𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቆ 𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣 + 𝑣ଶ𝑐ଶ𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣ቇ.The problem is that 𝑑𝑥 𝑑𝑡⁄ is either v or c depending whether x is the coordinate of a point onthe rod or the coordinate of the light ray. Considering the latter case, we have𝑑𝜏 = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 𝑑𝑡,from which we obtain𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣 ,which is Bowler’s result for 𝑡௅(3).So, corresponding to the time𝑡(3) = 𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣in the rest system, we have, in the moving system, the time𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣 .Thus𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 𝑡(3);hence, for a clock moving to the left with velocity v, Einstein’s equations of coordinatetransformation give a faster clock by the above factor.Therefore, Bowler’s careful analysis, using Einstein’s equations of coordinate transformation, ofthe Bender’s rods example gives unequal times, contradicting Einstein’s premise that clocks inthe moving system are synchronous, in the moving system and implies that clocks moving to
Page 13
13the left with velocity v run faster by the above factor, contradicting the experimentally verifiedslower, by a factor of (1 𝛽),⁄ clock in the moving system.Einstein’s requirement that, in each direction, the calculated velocity, in the moving system, oflight be c implies and is implied by the requirement that the units of time and distance in themoving system change in the same way. The Lorentz contraction gives a shorter, by a factor of𝛽, unit of distance. The slower clock, by a factor of 𝛽, gives a longer, by a factor of (1 𝛽),⁄ unitof time.In the Bender’s rods example, we “consider(ed) two rigid rods, each of length l.” We meant, byl, the length of each rod as measured at rest in the rest system. Considering Einstein’sderivation, where according to Einstein’s setup,  is a function 𝜏(𝑥′, 0, 0, 𝑡) where t is the time inthe stationary system for a ray of light, emitted at the time  in the direction of increasing ,to reach x', with 𝑥ᇱ = 𝑥 − 𝑣𝑡, of the equations of coordinate transformation, the points x', with𝑥ᇱ = 𝑥 − 𝑣𝑡, are the points of the stationary system. Via this transformation, 𝑥ᇱ = 𝑥 − 𝑣𝑡, alength, as measured in the rest system, in the moving system is equal to the correspondinglength, as measured in the rest system, in the rest system.Thus in Bowler’s careful analysis, using Einstein’s equations of coordinate transformation, ofthe Bender’s rods example, it is natural to assume that the l in Bowler’s equations is exactlywhat we considered it to be.We note, if it were not obvious, one final contradiction: Einstein’s equations of coordinatetransformation imply that it is not the case that a length, as measured in the rest system, in themoving system is equal to the corresponding length, as measured in the rest system, in the restsystem.If we choose the 𝜉 coordinate so that a length, in the moving system, as measured in themoving system, is just l, the same length as measured at rest in the rest system and let𝑥 = 𝜉ିଵ ൫𝜉(𝑥)൯,then𝑥 = (1 𝛽⁄ )𝜉 + 𝑣𝑡.Evidently for 𝑡(3) this gives𝑡(3) = 1𝛽𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣 ,
Page 14
14and for 𝜏(3), we have𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 1𝛽𝑙𝑐 + 𝑣 = 𝑙𝑐 .Via this approach, one obtains that the velocity of light, as measured in the moving system, is c;but, once again, we have𝜏(3) = 𝛽 ቀ1 + 𝑣𝑐ቁ 𝑡(3).This does not give a slower clock in the moving system.Once again, as in the movie, Brewster’s Millions, the furniture is, by now, gone 

(PDF) Bender Goes to Oxford. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/393441438_Bender_Goes_to_Oxford [accessed Nov 30 2025].