1 You therefore, my son, strengthen yourself in the grace that is in Jesus Christ. 
2 And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust it to faithful men who are capable of teaching it also to others. 
3 Suffer with me [by enduring the afflictions that we undergo because of our faith], like a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 
4 There is no soldier who bothers himself with the affairs of this life when he wants to please the one who has recruited him. 
5 And the athlete is not crowned if he has not fought according to the rules. 
6 The plowman must work before obtaining the fruits to be harvested. 
7 Consider what I say, and the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
8 Remember Jesus Christ, who was from the seed of David and who has been raised from the dead according to my gospel. 
9 For which I suffer and I am bound like an evildoer. But the word of God is not bound.
10 Therefore I endure all things because of those who are chosen, so that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus, that is to say, an everlasting glory. 
11 The following statement is certain: If we have died with him, then we will also live with him. 
12 For if we persevere, then we will also reign with him. If we deny him, then he also will deny us. 
13 If we are unfaithful [toward him], then he will remain faithful. For he cannot deny himself. 
14 You must always remind everyone of these things, pleading before God that we must avoid disputes over words, which only serve to ruin those who listen.
15 Strive to present yourself before God as a man steadfast in the faith in Jesus Christ, a worker who has no reason to be ashamed, who rightly proclaims the word of truth. 
16 Avoid vain and profane speeches. For those who indulge in it will only advance more and more in impiety. 
17 And their teaching will eat away at those who listen as if they had gangrene. Among such people are Hymenaeus and Philetus. 
18 They have turned away from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already come, and they overthrow the faith of some persons in this way. 
19 But the foundation of God remains unshaken, with these words serving as its seal, 'The Lord knows those who belong to him', and 'Whoever calls on the name of Christ, let him depart from iniquity'. 
20 In a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but there are also some of wood and of clay. Some are vessels for honor, and others are for an unpleasant use. 
21 Therefore if anyone keeps himself pure by abstaining from any kind of evil, then he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to his master, fit for every good work. 
22 Flee the lusts of youth, and follow righteousness, and faith, and love, and peace, with those who call on the Lord with a pure heart. 
23 Refrain from foolish and useless discussions, knowing that they produce quarrels. 
24 For a servant of the Lord must not have quarrels. On the contrary, he must be gentle toward everyone, apt to teach, endowed with patience. 
25 He must gently teach those who think differently, with the hope that God will give them repentance to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
26 And that, having regained their common sense, they will free themselves from the traps of the devil who has seized them to submit them to his will.
