1 Know that there will be difficult times in the last days. 
2 For people will be lovers of their own selves, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, abusive, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy. 
3 Without natural affection, implacable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, and they will not feel love for what is good.
4 Treacherous, stubborn, conceited, they will feel love for different kinds of pleasure rather than for God. 
5 Having a form of godliness, but denying its power. I ask you to turn away from such people. 
6 There are some among them who enter into houses, and who captivate women of a weak and narrow mind, laden with sins and agitated by all kinds of passions.
7 Those women are always learning, but never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
8 Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men oppose the truth. They are corrupt in mind, and they are rejected concerning faith. 
9 But they will not go very far. For their folly will be evident to everyone, just as it happened with those two men. 
10 But you know my teaching, my conduct, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my patience. 
11 You know my persecutions, my afflictions which befell me at Antioch, and at Iconium, and at Lystra, all the things that I have suffered in those places. And the Lord has rescued me from them all. 
12 Now all those who want to live godly in Jesus Christ will be persecuted. 
13 But evil men and deceivers will continue from bad to worse, deceiving others and also deceiving themselves. 
14 But as for you, continue to live in accordance with the things that you have learned and have acknowledged as certain, knowing from whom you have learned it. [That is to say, continue to practice the faith in Jesus Christ as you have learned it from me.] 
15 From your childhood, you have known the holy scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. 
16 For the whole scripture is given by the inspiration of God and is useful for teaching, so as to be able to convince, and to rebuke, and to instruct in righteousness. 
17 So that a servant of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.
