1 As for you, speak the things that are in accordance with the healthy doctrine. 
2 Say that the old men [who are disciples of Christ] must be self-controlled, earnest, gentle, strong in the faith, and in love, and in patience. 
3 Say that old women [who are disciples of Christ] must also have an appearance suitable for holiness, neither being slanderers nor addicted to wine, and that they must give honest instructions. 
4 With the aim of teaching young women to be self-controlled, and to love their husbands, and to love their children. 
5 And to be discreet, and chaste, and to take care of their homes, being kind and obedient to their own husbands, so that the word of God may not be blasphemed. 
6 Likewise exhort the young men to be self-controlled. 
7 You must show yourself in everything as an example of good works in accordance with the doctrine, trustworthy, earnest. 
8 Speaking blamelessly, so that the adversary may be put to shame, having no evil thing to say about us. 
9 Exhort those who are servants to be submissive to their own masters, to please them in all things, not to contradict. [Now this is a general rule that does not specify the obvious particularities. For a disciple of Christ has the obligation to seek the well-being of others in everything he does, and consequently to disobey any order that is given by any person having a certain authority if that order consists of harming others without publicly acceptable justification, as had been done by the midwives who lived in the kingdom of Egypt (Exodus 1:6-14,15-21).] 
10 They must not steal anything, but must always show a good faithfulness, in order to honor the doctrine of God our savior in all things. 
11 For the grace of God, the source of salvation for all men, has been revealed. 
12 It teaches us to renounce impiety and worldly passions, and to live soberly and righteously and godly in the present world. 
13 While waiting for the blessed hope, the manifestation of the glory of the great God, and of our savior Jesus Christ. 
14 Who gave himself for us, in order to redeem us from all iniquity, by purifying through himself a people who must become his own possession and who must be zealous for good works. 
15 Say these things, and exhort, and rebuke, with a full authority. Let no one despise you.
